Exmm: G
upon TD .om OF DIRECTORS
MANUFACTURING CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION
Fletcher L. Byrom, Chalman
Economlc P-llcy Revlew commlttee
September 14,
1975
There 15 suns concern by many 1n 1ndustry that July and August
Certalnly, many
areas hav- been fltful at best.
sales 1n ajor retall chalns have evldenced encouraglng strength.
The real agglng concern 1: the lack of any strength 1n the houslng
market an no Signs yet of any major move 1n plant and equlpment
expendltues.
Inflatlon.ry pressures are at least passlve for the present.
But again, projectlons of shortages 1n prlmary 1ndustry, mm only
sllght 1n-reases 1n capaclty utlllzatlon due to the lack of new
capaclty nstallatlons 1n recent years, are a cause for real
concern :- many.
jobs and hat thelr reactlons Will be 15 they do not 61nd the klnd
1nadequat depreclatlon pollcy and the fallure to date of much of
1ndustry 0 reduce 1:5 dlvldendipayout ratlos 1n order to compensate
justlfy n-w plant expendltures on the basls of present proflt
levels .. all these concerns hang llke a heavy cloud over a recovery
whlch to any 15 not as buoyant as they mlght have hoped, admlttlng
that to char: the lack of boom condltlons 15 a good Sign for a
Wage and 'rlce Controls
CMA 03704-
Wage and rlce controls contlnue 1n effect 1n Canada, so that
Canadlan ember companles of MCA as well as Us member companles
ln thelr anadlan operatlons face problems slmllar to those whlch
confronts Us 1ndustry durlng the 197171974 perlod.
Stablllty contlnues to focus attentlon on Situations 1: regards as
1nflatlon-ry. However, whlle 1: does have subpoena power, 1: has
no enforcment authorlty.
In Vlew o the solld opposltlon of both
busmess .nd labor, there 15 no present llkellhood of the renewed
Senator .1“: of Michigan three years ago 1ntroduced a mu
troduced . sllghtly revlsed Verslon.
The mm as 1ntended to
measures 1nd1cate the exlstence of "economc concentratlon" 1n the
given 1nustry. The chemlcal 1ndustry was one of seven llsted as a
posslble target.
Th1: ml was formally abandoned by Senator Hart on May 13
thls yean. He conceded that 1:: enactment was not "polltlcally
modest Mnopollzatlon Reform Act 15. 34297.
1: would amend the
1: would ellmlnate any requlrement of proof of 1ntent
m monopllze 1n actlons brought by the Unlted States;
1: would ellmlnate superlor perfomance as a defense
137 1: wmuld ellmlnate the prlma fame effect of a Government
judgment 1n such an actlon for subsequent prlvate trlple
damages;
1: would allow courts to take 1nto conslderatlon economlcs
of scale 1n fashlonlng remedles.
No actlo 1: expected thls year on thls new Hart b111, and
When the Hart Industrlal Reorganlzatlon Act' was flrst 1ntroduced
MCA (1n urder to be prepared for all conungenmesy, engaged an
economlc consultant. Professor Steven Lustgarten of Baruch College,
CMA 0370.4
r
dustry's case.
Vlew of he Proposals for Deconcentratlon," has been completed and
15 avall-nle. mule Senator Hart's Judlclary Subcommlttee on Antli
trust an Monopoly dld not 1n fact hold any hearlngs on the chemlcal
1ndustry, the Lustgarten report should be helpful 1n case Congress
es
1
for d1v.st1ture 1n the 011 1ndustry 7 Vertlcal dlvestlture, llmltlng
dustry productlon, transportatlon, reflnlng, and marketlng) and
horlzon-al dlvestlturE, requlrlng 011 and gas producers to dlvest
By a Vale of a m 7, the Senate Judlclary Commlttee has reported
out 5, .337, a Vertlcal dlvestlture mu.
1: woul requlre the 19
largest 011 companles to dlvest themselves of Vertlcally 1ntegrated
holdlng- Hlthln Elva years. No further actlon 1: expected on the
on the hole.
oppos
"leglsl.t1ve dlvestlture and/or dlvorcement of the 011 mi
dustry -nd ...51mllar Congresslonal efforts 1n other major 1ndu57
A serle of Senate Commerce Commlttee hearlngs, chalred by
Senator Hartke, were held early thls summer on the lssues of corpora: responslblllty/federal charterlng, offerlng Ralph Nader a
forum 1 whlch to push his advocacy of federal charterlng for
larger orporatlons, a favorlte cause of ms. However, mm both
monlto any developments 1n thls area.
cMAnsT4a
A task force. h aded by Harold Passer of Eastman Kodak, has
been oganlzed m revlew the Varlous proposals 1n the area of eco*
nomlc lannlng bemg mooted 1n the Congress and elsewhere.
1:
Hill hld 1:5 flrst meetlng September 15.
7. Mullnatlonal Cozporatlons
The Ecnnomlc Pollcy Revlew Commlttee 1: represented by two
member on a speclal MCA task force deallng mm the problems
faclng multlnatlonal cozporatlons.
Other CA Commlttees represented
are Ta Pollcy, Internatlonal Trade, Government Relatlons, and
Publlc Relatlons.
Multln-tlonal corporatlons are under study and/or attack
There s the
There s the Internatlonal Labor
Drganlzatlon 1mm. whlch 15 conductlng a study on the soclal unpact
There 15 the Drganlzatlon of Amerlcan
There 15 the UN Conference on Trade and Development
much, where the mum World natlons rally for thelr attack upon
1ndu5lry, the Drganlzatlon for Economlc Cooperatlon and Development
commltee on Multlnatlonal Cozporatlons and the tax*wr1t1ng Com?
mlttes of the Congress 7 Ways and Means 1n the House and Flnance
1n th Senate.
The Lsk force has been monltorlng developments 1n all these
forum.
Thank to an effectlve 1ndustry educatlonal campalgn, the
drlve for punitive taxatlon of WC: was largely turned back 1n
the H-use Ways and Means and Senate Flnance Commlttees.
The trust
The
woul outlaw such payments.
annu.l meetlng of the ILD thls Sumner.
The n Commlsslon on
Trannatlonal Corporatlons 15 at work on guldellnes, but 15 not
scheuled to produce them for elghteen months or so.
By 6-1“ the most unportant recent development on the 1nter1
natl-nal stage was the adoptlon by the man on June 21 of a
stat-ment on "Internatlonal Investment and Multlnatlonal Enterprlses.”
CMA 037045
Th1: statement. the product of lengthy negotlatlons among the 24
opeatlng 1nternatlonally.
In .artlcular. the statement:
forlgn 1nvestors, so that they will be accorded treatment no
la: favorable than that accorded domestlc enterprlses 1n llke
~ 'ecognlzes the sanctlty of contracts between governments and
enezprlsesi
~ ecognlzes the posltlve contrlbutlons whlch multlnatlonal
~ ncourages the use of 1nternatlonal arbltratlon 1n resolvlng
-sture as the debate over multlnatlonal corporatlons progresses 1n
he wlder forum of the Unlted Natlons.
A 037047
