Exhibit F
upon y THE ummmn 017 GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM M. STDVER
NDV‘EM‘BE 22,
1975
The Sec-nd Sesslon of the 94th Congress came to an end 1n the
early m-rnlng hours of October 2, 1:5 259 day duratlon maklng 1: the
second hortest Congresslonal sesslon Since 1950. of the more than
20,000 1115 1ntroduced, only about 450 survlved m flnal enactment.
Flfteen mm: were vetoed. and four Vetoes were overrldden.
Durlng
the Sec-nd Sesslon the Senate took 599 recorded Votes and the House
551, th total of 1,349 belng a new record.
Amld th frantlc flurry of lastimlnute actlvlty,
Erllls .5 significance were moved on toward enactment,
Congres also left behlnd some unflnlshed busmess 1n
mu: m: completed, mus whlch are sure to reappear
one to or another.
a numbe of
but the 94th
the to of
next ye.r 1n
were:
7 The T-xlc Substances Control ACt (PL 9474597, flnally became
law aftr Elva years of dellberatlon and controversy, thus
establlhlng Federal controls over the manufacture, dlstrlbutlon
and use of chemlcals.
busters and lastidltch House opposltlon; authorlzes states
of Cltlensi requlres large companles m notlfy government
powers.
k
v
7 Tax vaslon (PL 944557. was the product of three years work
but Eel far short of reforms promlsed by Democratlc congresslonal leaders; plans for major overhaul of taxatlon of v.5.
1n Elna fom extended the 1nvestment tax credlt for another
four ye-rs, 1ncreased the minimum tax for busmess and altered
somewha the rules for corporate forelgn tax credlts.
CMAD3712
2
expands Federal and state programs
mm ne authorlzatlons and powers for EPA, a Federal regulatory
program for hazardous wastes. a ban on open dumplng Hlthln Elva
years. .nd authorlzatlons for state and local solld waste
managemnt and research programs.
However electloniyear jltters, Veto threats, 1nternal squabble:
and the pressure of an abbrevlated Congresslonal sesslon comblned to
of whlc are llkely to surface again.
7 A ml: to provlde strlcter regulatlon of lobbylng, whlch riled
amld lat mlnute parllamentary manueverlng as Congress ad?
journed' Common Cause 1: a strong advocate, whlle Nader groups
and the AFL7CID supported only the House Verslon; busmess
15 appr-henslve over the prospect of heavler recordikeeplng
and rep-rtlng requlrements; dues paid to trade assoclatlons by
c
7 Clean Alr Amendments fell Vlctlm to a Senate flllbuster as the
Sesslon ended; Senator Muskle has blamed the auto 1ndustry for
kllllng the measure and may reslst efforts for qulck actlon on
set :9 aka effect 1n 1979; the scicalled nonfattalnment and
nonidegedatlon lssues were also mghly controverslal and sure
to be h-tly debated 1n the next Congress.
7 Water Pollutlon leglslatlon riled 1n conference; chlef lssues
were dares of control over the natlon's wetlands. expanded
and del.y of m1d71977 water quallty deadllnes for munlclpalltles.
The 95: Congress 1: expected to take a thorough look at the
entlre ederal Water Pollutlon Control ACt, usmg as a startlng
Vlable ompromlse although both the House and Senate passed
prices, and thus dlscouraglng new exploratlon and productlon.
beyond he early hearlng stages; 1:: chlef sponsor, Michigan
Senato thp A. Hart, 15 retlrlng; the measure smgles out
up, cre.tes a speclal commlsslon to make dlvestlture investk
gatlons and a speclal court to compel dlsmantllng.
CMA 037-13
I
3
would .Ve forced "horlzontal" dlvestlture, thus keeplng oll
companl-s out of other energy source 1nterests (m though the
"Vert1.l" mu cleared a Senate commlttee 1: was never taken
Senate ommerce Commlttee; one concept would requlre a Federal
charts of cozporatlons, mm annual reportlng on the makeup
of the noard of dlrectors, product llne sales and Votlng stock
Among a numerous other mus whlch falled m achleve Congresslonal
strlct ontrols over strlpimlnlng;
land u—- controls;
common 1tus plcketlng 1n the constructlon 1ndustry;
expand. powers and investigative authorlty for the Federal
Trade I-mmlsslon.
CARTER mmrsnmnou pnmmzms TO TAKE OFFICE
vsmg at pollster Lou Harrls called "the old Roosevelt coalltlon"
as the nackbone of ms campalgn. Governor Jlmmy Carter of Georgla
has benme presldentielect, and 15 now hard at work on the masslve task
of org.111ng ms Admlnlstratlon.
Recent days have seen Mr. Carter
closet-d mm such Ford Admlnlstratlon notables as George Bush (for
and at 3:30 thls afternoon he 1: 1n personal conference Hlth Presldent
Ford :- dlscuss the transltlon of the Government.
uncert.1nty as much as by mere curloslty. After all, Jlmmy Carter has
run as an antliestabllshment candldate for nearly two years.
He has
\s Vow-d sweeplng reforms and new programs, has fought bltter campalgn
...&tl-s mm recognlzed leaders of his own party. ' However, on electlon
":Bht a made a qulck transltlon from crltlc on the outslde to manager
n the nslde.
Jlmmy larter now IS the establlshment.
ﬁe
And th-refore he 15 now confronted Hlth a dllemma of some dellcacy,
how to begln m threat and m motlvate the people and the mechanlsms
he has so recently and soundly castlgated.
He mus- 61nd and appoint
cablne- heads and offlceholders mm the capaclty to make the machlnery
of goV-rnment work, and thls would seem to 1nd1cate a need for expert
enced ersonnel; but at the same time he must avold the appearance
and paty professlonals. He needs new faces, but he also needs the
There .re Signs that a number of Carter appolntments may be
reveald relatlvely soon, so that incoming offlclals Will have maxlmum
tune fr plannlng and coordlnatlon Hlth departlng offlclals of the
Observrs around the world will be carefully
Admlnl-tratlon, the 1nfluence bemg wlelded by Varlous 1nterest groups
and poeribrokers, and for 1nd1catlons as m the polltlcal "15de of
the Prsldentielect hlmself.
Among he most dellcate tasks confrontlng Mr. Carter, and one he
appear to recognlze clearly as such, 15 the establlshlng of Communica*
Congres.
Hls reent meetlng mm 15 Democratlc Congresslonal leaders
last wek at the famiestate of Georgla Senator Herman Talmadge was
surely an effort to hold out the ollve branch and to begln m bulld
suppor for key programs.
The dlcusslons were reportedly broad 1n
nature touchlng on matters relatlng to the strength of the economy
and're-rganlzatlon of Government.
Some osarvers behave, however. that the new Presldent may
Democr.t1c hands. They reason 1: thls way: Congresslonal leaders
of Preldents leon and Ford. have obvlously enjoyed the 1ndepeni
dense -nd status whlch the years of confrontatlon have produced.
They
have h.d an unportant role 1n punishing one Presldent and 1n maklng
thelr ndependence of actlon.
Moreovr. mils and programs delayed
by attntlon m Watergate or stalled by Ford Vetoes are already 1n
falrly pollshed form, and are not llkely to be dropped readlly by
thelr ponsors 1n favor of Carter alternatlves.
Yet an-ther factor
will b the attltude of the Whlte House 1tself, and longitlme Carter
watches polnt out that he adopted a tough, no compromlse attltude
toward the Georgla leglslature durlng ms tam as Governor.
CMAD37I15
5
Much o offlclal Washlngton 15 now speculatlng on the future
HoWeVe, from speeches and statements by the Presldentielect, and
mm r-spect m the economy. Governor Carter appears flmly 1n
favor .5 creatlng more jobs and provldlng stlmulus m the natlonal
young eople from urban areas 15 another Carter 51m, and 15 conslstent
suppo of 1nvestment credlts, strong antktrus: enforcement and a
Tax r-form.
thong a popular toplc at the campalgn podlum, Will take conslderably
longs to accompllsh.
Ha ha
calls, for strlct enforcement of water pollutlon control laws and
Contr-l Act.
He suports strlct controls over strip mnmg.
m
Carts mm greater emphasls on energy conservatlon, and a strengthenlng
constuctlon of new nuclear power plants.
1ncre.sed rellance on domestlc coal from the deep mnes of Appalachla
and wuld oppose heavy development of strlpimlned coal resources 1n
the W-stern Unlted States. He opposes further expanslon of Western
lease declslons.
automblles Hlth economlc penaltles on those Hlth less fuel efflclency.
He oposes Federal subsldles for synthetlc fuel productlon.
ME 953 coumss;
NEW FCES. NEW LEADERS. SAME VOTE muss
When -he smoke of electlon day had cleared, the new Congress
mposd of 52 Democrats and 39 Republlcans, and the House shows a
shlft m the Democrats of only two seats, the new ratlo belng 2927143
a
on clmser inspection, however, the changes will be both numerous
House and 1n both partles; there 15 a substantlal crop of "freshmen",
resposlbllltles; there 15 talk of major commlttee reallgnment 1n the
The H-use Hill organlze 1tself 1n early December, 1n that Members
will we named to commlttees, new chalrmen Will be elected and changes
1n Hose rules and commlttee jurlsdlctlons Will be consldered. Not
untll the 95th Congress convenes 1n January, however, will subcommlttee
Voted on.
There are 57 new House Members. 47 Democrats and 20 Republlcans.
mm -5 percent of those runnlng belng returned to offlce.
The
stron raielectlon rate held true for the 79 scicalled "Watergate
79 ra for raielectlon and 75 won.
There Will be a number of unportant changes 1n the chalmanshlps
7 Bunet Commlttee (commlttee 2*year rotatlon rule)
7 The Interlor Commlttee (jurisdiction 1ncludes energy matters,
7 Mechant Marlne and Fisherles (merchant marlne matters.
7 Po-t Offlce Commlttee (the postal system
7 Pulls works and Transportatlon Commlttee (water pollutlon
contol, most transportatlon matters)
debaue7
Anoter development worthy of mentlon 15 the fact that there are
save Vacancles to be filled on the House Ways and Means Commlttee
wherln taxatlon and trade leglslatlon are wrltten.
CMA 37117
I
7
The .enate Will also undergo some 1nterest1ng changes.
dldn't fare as well as thelr House colleagues mm only 15 of the 25
The .4 percent raielectlon rate for
who 111 replace Vice Presldentielect Mondale.
Ten are Democrats and
Thre commlttee chalrmen were defeated: Hartke (Veterans Affair57:
Mos (Aeronautlcs and Spacey, and McGee (Post Offlce and awn Servmey.
Thee Will be conslderable change 1n the membershlps of several
Semte Commlttees. 1nclud1ng Commerce, where there are 7 Vacancles
m a filled. Flnance 14 vacanmesy and Judlclary 15 vacanmesy.
Hll‘ brlng a Significant shlft 1n commlttee jurlsdlctlons and responi
Silllltles. A reorganlzatlon proposal 1n the form of a Senate
Re-olutlon has been drafted by the Commlttee on Commlttees headed by
Seator Adlal E. Stevenson. Jr. (DrlllJ, and could be taken up early
1n 1977. The resolutlon presents a number of alternatlves for
rsponslbllltles.
