TRADE;
EXPORT 'ADING company LEGISLATION
I
now subj-ct m jolnt conference.
language from Representatlve St. Gemaln's 3.x. 50157.
If passe 1nto law, a new
form of mm: export effort will be posslble. The CHA Internatlonal Trade
Commltte- Hill determlne how to advlse member companles on use of the export tradlng
company om of marketlng.
MARITIME REFORM PROPOSALS DELAYED
:I
Senators Howard Metzenbaum miom and Strom Thumond miscy. The delay has been
created necause of antltrust implicatlﬁn, and because of Senator Slade Gorton's
miwm -posltlon m an unrelated mu 1nvolv1ng the 111mm: Brlck case. 5. 1593
shlppers and carrlers.
House 51.“ actlon on the Merchant Marlne and Flsherles Commlttee*reported
proposal 3.x. 4374, has been delayed untll the resolutlon of antltrust concerns
by the -use Judlclary Commlttee. Jurlsdlctlon over the mm was asserted by the
cm 0379.4
now 1: lab Verslon will emerge from the House Rules Commlttee, cm generally
supports the Judlclary Verslon and would encourage no further amendments except
Commltte‘. 1: 15 posslble the mu could go to the floor under suspenslon or wlthout
Passage .5 a House mu Similar to the Senate
measure ould offer the Senate leadershlp the means to adopt the House b111, thus
Marltlme Reform.
CANADIA urvmzsmu
Canadla ports was unexpectedly sent to the House Rules Commlttee last month.
3.x. 353 had been labeled nonieontroverslal 1n an attempt to gain the opportunlty
for Hous- floor conslderatlon. ; A rule for the mm was not given.
Dpposltl-n to the mu came primarily from a group of mldwestern Congressmen,
and m cm. Efforts contlnue m heap the mm from reachlng the House floor.
REGULATI'Y REFORM LEGISLATION
The lon delay 1n House conslderatlon of regulatory recom leglslatlon may
reports an omnlbus regulatory recom b111, 3.x. 74a (DanlelsoninicAy. Since
a
on Mare 24 the Senate passed 5. men, the Regulatory Refom Act. 5. men
busmes coalltlon seeklng passage of thls 1mportant leglslatlon.
In July, the busmess coalltlon stepped up 1:: efforts to secure House
D'Nelll .nd other members of the House Democratlc leadershlp had reservatlons
problem, however. may be resolved by amendments whlch would brlng 3.x. 74a closer
to the .nguage of 5. men. Although chances for House floor conslderatlon of
I
t
mums:
PATENT um RESTORATION BILL REPORTED
am has actlvely supported passage of patent tern restoratlon leglslatlon,
3.x. 544 and 1:5 predecessor mu 3.x. 1937 (Kastenmeleriniwlscy. on July 23,
the Bone Judlclary Commlttee favorably reported 3.x. 5444 to the House.
y
3.x. 544 would add up to 7 years of patent life to products that must
undergo governmentimandated testlng and revlew. Durlng the markiup of the
mm by he Judlclary Commlttee, a technlcal amendment was approved whlch would
rather han "reclplent of marketlng approval." Th1: change would ensure that
term retoratlon.
r
Patent em restoratlon leglslatlon passed the Senate by Volce Vote last
opposed \-y a coalltlon of organlzed labor, certaln consumer groups, and the
generlc drug 1ndustry.
cm and ACA, 15 followlng the leadershlp of the Phamaceutlcal Manufacturlng
present Vote for the mu. Representatlves of cm member companles have been
alerted to contact Members of Congress urging them to Vote for passage of
mums:
muons mvmmn LEGISLATION
I
would g-Vern the patent rlghts of employed 1nventors. 3.x. 4723 and 3.x. 5535
1
would pomm: preqnvennon asslgnment agreements between employers and employees
whlch tansfer to the employer rlghts to any inventlon that 15 not an "employment ~
1nvent1-n" or a "servlce 1nventlon." 3.x. 5535 also calls for "adequate
compens.tlon for the (1nventor'57 servlce inventlon."
on July 29, the House Judlclary Subcommlttee on Courts, awn leertles
and the dmlnlstratlon of Justlce held a publlc hearlng m recelve support testlmony
from th Instltute of Electrlcal and Electronlc Englneers and from the AFL’CID.
The Path: and Trademark Commlttee 15 revlewlng thls leglslatlon and will
develop approprlate CMA comments, but 1: 15 unllkely that leglslatlon on thls
subject could be enacted 1n thls Congress.
cm 037-55
I
13
leglsla-lve and regulatory actlvlty
By late July and August, most stats laglslaeurts had adjourned for the year.
In tha -thar5. suroter raeassas wart 1n affact. Tha followlng statas art expected
statas ava hald or Will hold speclal sasslons 1n 1953 to addrass budgat matters
and oth.r presslng concerns such as unemployment and taxes.
Regulatry actlvlty has also decreased reflectlng sumer schedules.
Tha 5:5.5 Affalrs Plannlng Group, organlzed 1n Aprll at tha dlrectlon of
has now completed 1:: flnal report whlch 15 belng presented 1n August to tha Executlve
Comltte. Tha report focusses on:
Outlook for 1ncreased stats leglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty.
Currant and emerglng lssues.
cm org.nlzatlonal needs to effectlvely address state affalrs.
Status .nd role of state chemlcal 1ndustry counclls.
Program- of allled assoclatlons.
. commms AND TASK snow ACTIVITY
Hlth slwer leglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty durlng the summer, the
SASC an 1:: task groups have concentrated on preparatlon for the 1993 leglslatlve
sesslonu Major actlvltles 1nclude:
Contlnud plannlng for four reglonal CMA State Affalrs Issues
Semlnar- m be held 1n October and November 1n Port Chester mm.
Atlanta (cm, Chlcago (XL), and Denver (Coy. These sesslons are
deslgne m hlghllght state leglslatlve and regulatory trends and m
acqualnl plant managers, reglonal state government relatlons repi
resentallves, state trade and busmess assoclatlons and allled
1ndustr representatlves Hlth chemlcal 1ndustry lssues and CMA'S
posture on them.
Delawar. ohm and New York havlng been addressed to date.
1
cm 037-57
1
Meetlng- of the Network Task Group 1n Mlnnesota and Wlsconsln
durlng uly. These meetlngs are deslgned to enhance the worklng
states hlle explorlng the need and deslrablllty of establlshlng
t
and peromance guldellnes for leglslatlve and regulatory tracklng
Vendors Presentatlons by potentlal Vendors for the 1993794 sesslon
companls Will be 1nv1ted m partlclpate 1n the program.
NATIONAI sum: sovmmmm ORGANIZATIONS ANNUAL MEETINGS
Durlng uly and August, the Natlonal Conference of State Leglslatures (NCSL7
1
and the Natlonal Governors Assoclatlon held thelr annual meetlngs. Pollcy
maklng -esslons on chemlcal 1ndustry lssues were llmlted and no Significant adverts :
Interac-lon between the NCSL and the busmess communlty
contlnus m 1ncrease m the beneflt of all partles. cm had an exhibit at the
NCSL metlng explalnlng our Chemtrec actlvltles and the 1ndustry's efforts to managt
worked 1th NCSL staff to place 1ndustry spokesman on hazardous materlals
t
transpotatlon and blotechnology panels.
5
I
ISSUES umm
RIGHT TI‘ Know
I
c
thls ye.r whlch contalned extenslve record keeplng requlrements. The Governor
then Veoed these provlslons and his veto was recently sustalned. Proponents of
rlghtitiknow 1n Wlsconsln may attempt to revlse the law 1n the near future to makt
1: more strlngent.
1
thelr w.y through the state admlnlstratlve process. If and whan they emerge, the
natlon.
communlles based thelr ordlnances on the model proposal drafted by the State
Health Iepartment, but the more recent ordlnances are becomlng more dlverse.
C1nc1nn.tl mm flnally enacted a communlty rlghtitoiknow mu durlng the summer,
A new cmmblned worker and connnunlty rlghtitoiknow mm 1513 15707 has been
am 03719
1
1ntrodued 1n New Jersey by Senator Dalton and hearlngs are expected 1n September.
cm 15 orklng closely Hlth the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry Councll on thelr
An 1ndu-try court challenge to West Virginia's 1991 worker rlghtitoiknow law
has has defeated.
Drganlz-d labor has made state rlghtitoiknow a prlorlty lssue for 1933. Th1:
15 evld-nclng 1tself 1n states llke Michigan and Texas where rumours perslst of
mu: 1 preparatlon.
In orde to meet thls challenge, CMA 1: 1n the flnal stages
of prep.r1ng a comprehenslve 1nfomatlon packet on the rlghtitoiknow lssue for use
1n the hates. Th1: would supplement the lssues analysls booklet whlch was made
HAZARDOUS WASTES
Hazardos waste contlnues .m be the most actlve state program area. The SASC
Hazardos Waste Dlsposal Task Group has been 1nvolved 1n the followlng actlvltles:
Gearlng up to address the unpact 1n the states of the forthcomlng
tort la study mandated under federal Superfund.
waste.
Increasd 1nteractlon mm EMC task groups 1n pollcy development
and suport actlvltles for state actlvltles.
Meetlng mm chemlcal 1ndustry and state assoclatlon representatlves
The mos Significant leglslatlve actlvlty durlng the summer months was the
passage of a Superfund mm by New York. The flnal mm was the product of 1ntense
negotlalons between 1ndustry and the state and between the Assembly and Senate.
The act creates a cleanup fund whlch 15 funded by a waste and fee. mum party
llabllly provlslons were not 1ncluded.
In Mass.Ghusetts, HE 5551 15 llkely to be consldered thls fall. Member
company representatlves, worklng closely mm 1he Assoclated Industrles of
Massachsetts, have been engaged 1n dlscusslons Hlth the Admlnlstratlon, leglslators
flnance and contalns no addltlonal liability language.
Mlchlga HE 4715 has passed the House and 1: 1n the Senate pendlng further
actlon. Although the mu 5:111 requlres further amendments to more closely llnk
1: m fderal Superfund, 1: 15 flnanced from general revenues and does not contaln
llabllly provlslons.
The New Jersey Splll Fund will llkely be the subject of Significant amendments
15 the onverslon of the tax from feedstock to waste and. The New Jersey cm has
am 03759
HA2ARPDHS MATERIALS mmsponmnou
Progres has contlnued on draftlng consensus "Good Samarltan" language
for use by a coalltlon of trade assoclatlons. cm concerns center on language
1nc1dens. Once consensus language has been achleved, targetlng of states for
Coalltlun actlon can begln 1n earnest. The SASC Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon
Task Gruup 15 now worklng closely Hlth Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee members to more
clearly dellneate state transportatlon concerns and develop brleflng materlals
to supp-rt our posltlons.
:]
:I
1
fl
1
5
:'I
have ben actlve 1n negotlatlons mm other trade assoclatlons and state and local
on pren-tlflcatlon requlrements for hazardous materlals shlpments, Alabama recently j
proposew regulatlons requlrlng two weeks prior notlflcatlon of the shlpment of
hazardos waste. Th1: notlflcatlon would be glven to several state agencles and the A
hazardos waste faclllty to whlch the waste 15 bemg shipped.
r
AIR AMD WATER QUALITY
:I
The SAS Envlronmental Task Group has been reorganlzed under a new chalrman
and has deslgnated prlorlty lssues 1n the alr and water quallty area 1nclud1ng:
Groundw.ter/safe drlnklng water, water quallty standards (1nclud1ng pemlttlng
state c-ncer Pollcles.
The :35 group 15 worklng mm the 2m groundwater and water quallty standards
task gr-ups on developlng state lssue posltlons and supportlng materlals.
Major lglslatlve and regulatory actlvlty 1ncludes the Callfornla Alr Resource
1n thls area. Other states Hlth toxlc alr contamlnant leglslatlon 1nclude
Mlchlga 51; 500 would extend the 115s of the state TSCA act 1ndefln1tely.
I
Mlchlga 15 also worklng on developmg rlsk assessment methodology for use 1n wattrl
quallty standards.
I
CHA
cm 037.50
I
EXHIBIT M
REPORT F DIRECTOR 0F comwmnmus
RICHARD L. WILSON
The cm Communlcatlons Department has one prlmary objectlve;
to 1ncrase recognltlon that the chemlcal 1ndustry 15 commltted
to act esponslbly to protect the publlc from the health and
safety 15k: of 1:: products 77 and thereby to develop publlc
support for the 1ndustry's publlc pollcy posltlons.
The depmn
men: 15 an 1ntegral part of the cm umbrella functlon of advocacy.
CMA'S c-mmunlcatlons actlvltles are 1nstrumental 1n shaplng
publlc nderstandlng and publlc support.
From ths understandlng
and suport evolves government controls and lssue*related laws
The dep.rtment 15 1nterlocked mm and suppori
tlve of every other CMA department and Commlttee through every
step of the publlc pollcy process.
The cm Communlcatlons Commlttee (made up of the top prof
fesslon.ls 1n the 1ndustry7 monltors department actlvltles and
helps 1 program development.
The comrehenslve program 1ncludes:
2.“:vaer 7 The CMA twoiyear old advertlslng program produced
measura-le results. as tested by Cambrldge Reports 1n 1:: thlrd
wave pu-llc opinion poll earller thls year.
Almost 316 the
."polltcal actlve" sample surveyed were aware of the CMA communk
catlon n the magazlnes 1n whlch the ads appeared.
of the ommunlcatlons gave the 1ndustry better marks (13 percentage
polnts7 for 1:: efforts on waste dlsposal than those who were not.
For the flrst tune Since 1990, the proportlon of polltlcally
actlve ndlvlduals who feel the 1ndustry 15 concerned about the
average person's welfare 147m nearly equals those Viewing the
1ndustr as unconcerned.
The curent creatlve strategy W to demonstrate the chemlcal
1ndustr commltment through the personal concern of 1nd1v1dual
1ndustr people by showlng thelr dual role as concerned parent and
worker 7 Will be used for the remalnder of thls calendar year.
These t-n humanilnterest advertlsements appear 1n Time, Newsweek,
Angeles Tlmes and The Washlngton Post.
In two ears these ads have
generat-d almost a quarter of a million requests for the "key
lssues" booklets and addltlonal 1nformatlon.
Several new creatlve formats
men: beglnnlng Jan. 1, 1933.
for pl.ce*
cm 037951
2
Sclenc- Advlsory Group will Visit 57 cltles and appear on more
nearly 125. newspaper 1ntervlews.
The setlon 15 coordlnatlng
an eve more aggresslve medla tour schedule durlng the current
medla our "season."
Betwee June 1932 and May 1933, medla
tour sokespersons should V151: approxlmately en prlmary Cities.
News m.terlals dlstrlbutlon 1ncludes speclal newsfeatures and
oplnlo pieces for prlnt medla; lssue backgrounders; speclal re*
ports Irom ChemEcolqu; news releases; booklets and pamphlets;
and dltrlbutlon of "The Chemlcal Industry Facts Flle."
The Setlon has begun productlon of speclal communlcatlons
mater1.ls on such key lssues as water and hazardous waste.
The
flrst .5 these was a package of materlals on water lssues, dE*
Signed for use or adaptlons by member companles at the local level.
Includd 1n thls package were: a model speech and press release;
backgr-unders on water lssues,’ suggested questlons and answers for
medla ntervlews; VldeO £11m Clips.
51mm packages on other
lssues W 1nclud1ng hazardous waste dlsposal W are planned.
The Sentlon will produce a speclal monthly newsletter to
and reorts on major lssues.
Anothe- newsletter 15 planned for
member- of the press to keep them up to date on lssues.
Radlo peratlons 1nclude: THE upon, a serles of threemlnute newsfeatures, dlstrlbuted blweekly to a LSDDistatlon
posal .nd siting, energy, Clean alr and water lssues, and other
'chemlal related subjects.
Usage ates of 1,250 to
1,550 -tatlons encourage an 1ncreased effort 1n the future.
In the televlslon area: nlnetyisecond newsfeatures were
producd thls spring on Superfund and hazardous waste techno logy,
Inltla dlstrlbutlon was done by satelllte mm followup pla cement
1n e4 arget markets.
year 0 enemy, envlronmental and economc lssues.
Medla ontact contlnues and Will be expanded by attends nee at
the R510 and Televlslon News Dlrectors Assoclatlon. Natlons 1
Radlo .roadcasters Assoclatlon and Natlonal Farm Broadcaster s
Assoc1.tlon conventlons.
1
1
1
Also. ews Servlces 15 responslble for coordlnatlng sus talned,
of plaement and development efforts by any: outslde publlc relatlons counsel.
The Setlon's medla contact efforts have resulted 1n numerous
1
3
the maor commerclal televlslon networks.
and th Publlc Broadcastlng System.
Publlc Radlo
Ca 115 from the medla m cm average about 4,200 calls a year,
Th1: c gure does not 1nclude telephone and personal contacts
1n1tla ed by the Sectlon.
cm of laers and executlves on major speaklng platforms 1n major
market across the country, such as: the Detrolt Economlcs Club;
the Ho Id Affalrs Councll of Plttsburgh; the Executlve Club of
I
Chlaagn ~
swam PROJECTS 7 A plot reglonal communlcatlons program 15 bemg
launeh d.
The pr-gram Will be llmlted to one state, will be molded
to tha state's communlcatlons needs and Will be carrled out by the
suppor of the companles that make up the councll.
Funds or the
progr. would be made avaliable by CMA.
progr. are to measure the'effectlveness of the cm communlcatlons
states could use to attack thelr communlcatlons problems.
As of lune, 1,090,000 key lssue booklets have been prlnted, and
947.55 have been dlstrlbuted.
Total eaflets prlnted were 1,472,700,
.pub11 relatlons staff of Celanese Corporatlon, the Chemlcal Sectlon
of the Internatlonal Assoclatlon of Buslness Communlcators and the
Falrflld County, Greenwlch, Conn., chapter of the Publlc Relatlons
Souls: of Amerlca.
Contac has been made mm the publlc relatlons
AIChE embers 1n CMA'S communlcatlons effort.
The Du’ont Company's 1ntroductory sesslon for the cm staff
will b- 1ncluded 1n CMA'S communlcatlons program.
organlatlon liaison W 1n1tlat1ng, developlng and maintaining
mutually beneflclal relatlonshlps between cm and a Wide Varlety
conta and Servlel ng throughout the year.
TV an radlo taplng facllltles for AWRT 1ntervlews mm key member
4
Also. he Sactlon partlclpated for the fourth year 1n
Twelv- company executlves gave 295 radlo and TV 1ntervlews
1n m.
Gener. Federatlon of Women's Clubs 77 12,500 v.5. clubs
and 5.0.000 members;
Amerlan Home Economlcs Assoclatlon 77 55,000 members mm
hlgh nonsentratlon 1n academia;
membes who work Hlth 59,000 clubs;
Amerlan Councll on Consumer Interests W 4,300 members.
malnl consumer educators.
Educa-lon t The Catalyst Awards, begun 1n 1957, have honored
of te.chers supportlve of the 1ndustry.
and 1 reglonal awards are glven each year.
Natloal wlnners
Begloal wlnners
resale $500, a medal and a certlflcate.
The Cemlcal Industry
Over .000 requests
mg 1 17a excellent candldates.
cm h.s now begun 1:: 1993
1n 19.2 about hazardous waste dlsposal, 15 just beglnnlng m be
dlstrbuted m organlzatlons and schools.
Mamba companles
order-d an 15 mm. Verslons and 53 Vldeotapes of "The Need to
Also. cm developed three publlc servlce announcements as
part .5 "The Need to Know" £11m package; "Abandoned Waste Sltes,"
"Clea water 1n Amerlca" and "Waste Dlsposal W Inclneratlon."
More han 7mm of these spots are bemg malled to publlc servlce
for sale to members for hand placement :9 thelr local publlc
Slnc- the beglnnlng of promotlon of the £11m, a total of 559
£11m have been clrculated to 10,431,135 estlmated Viewers.
Th1: year to date, 2,531 booklngs have been scheduled to
am 37954
1
5
smc- dlstrlbutlon began 1n 1931.
Membr companles have ordered
277 5 mm. Verslons and 53 Videotapes of the £11m.
"The Chemlcal Balance" 15 a 12*m1nutE, 35 mm. audiowlsual
presntatlon of chemlcal 1ndustry contrlbutlons to people, the
natlun and 1:: management of rlsk.
A ﬁre copy of the sllde show
was 1Ven to each member company.
PUELCATIDNS 7 cm News strlves to keep 1:: 5,000 readers 1n
memb-r companles 1nformed of Assoclatlon actlvltles.
the ubllcatlon 15 golng behlnd the news to explaln the significance
of urrent lssues.
hav- covered the CMA/EPA Five Plant Study, TSCA, the envlronmeni
sumarlzes cm actlvltles and future plans.
the 1ndustry's efforts to 1mprove the envlronment and the workplace.
1:: 30,000 readers get the other slde of the story that seldom
app-ars 1n the publlc median
to keep the press and other 1nterested publlcs aware of CMA' s
poltlons and progress.
MA 037955
