knowledg- of productlon and use patterns, toxlcologlc propel”
tles. an- the presence of arsenlc In the envlronment.
"he suspcted carclnogenlc effects of arsenlc Hlth Dr. HardlngBarlow.
am 03792
a
Butylate- Hydroxytoluene (arm
The joln- FAD/WHD Expert Commlttee on Food Addltlves re*
BET, pen-lng recelpt of addltlonal testlng data.
EPA and -he chlorobenzenes producers have agreed on a
Voluntar Industry test program. The Toxlcology Research Group
Foundatl-n perform the cell transfomatlon assays and EPA Is In
agreemen- mm thls recommendatlon. Requests for proposals to
conduct . twoigeneratlon reproductlon study on monochloroi
benzene are sent to Elva contract laboratorles.
Ethylene leromlde (Ems)
The Intenatlonal Brotherhood of Teamsters urged In a
Septembe 2, 1931. petition that the Dccupatlonal Safety and
Health A-mlnlstratlon (OSHA) Issue an emergency temporary
standard (msy reduclng the exposure 11m: for the fumlgant
EDB. The Teamsters' petition clalms that "three major studles"
show EDB m be a potent carclnogen at levels far below those
allowed nder the present OSHA standard.
OSHA has been asked
to Hrlte an ms. OSHA has no definitive plan of actlon untll
1: has otalned more data.
conslder-d. Dr. L. Vernon Whlte of Great Lakes Chemlcal and
Mr. Rage Mangham of Ethyl Corporatlon will attend an OSHA
meetlng n EDB on October 13 as Industry representatlves.
Ethylene chhlorlde
clarlfy -everal questlons relatlng m the flnal report of the
chronlc nhalatlon study conducted for the panel by Drs.
Maltonl .nd Spreaflco.
Ethylene Dxlde
Councll ncludes 29 companles and assoclatlons. The Sclentlflc
Budgets .nd
proposal- are m be submltted m the Ear: Executlve Commlttee
Cltlzen ealth Research Group and the Amerlcan Federatlon of
Stats. Cunty and Munlclpal Employees to Issue an emergency
temporar standard. Also OSHA stated that an advance notlce of
proposed rulemaklng (ANPR) woulid be Issued.
Included In the
cm 037913
9
denlal ms 3 statement that regulatlon of sterllant and
pestlcld- end users of ethylene oxlde would be under EPA'S
jurlsdlclon.
a motlon for 1njunct1ve rellef In the DC Dlstrlct Court;
however. thls has not occurred.
on Octobr 1, the Group dld
basls fo the denlal.
Fluorocabons
All 19 p.rt1c1pat1ng companles have commltted to the 1m
creased udget of 51.9 million for calendar year 1932.
There
tlon of ﬁfe Valldlty of the Ozone Depletlon Theory Hill
dlmlnlsh In the near future.
Four CMA representatlves attended the mmp Coordlnatlng
Commltte- on the Ozone Layer at Copenhagen, Denmark, on October
Two task forces and the Fluorocarbon Program Panel 117mm
met In Rmme, Italy the week of October 19, 1931.
A number of
Visiting sclentlsts partlclpated 1n presentatlons and panel
dlscusslmns on atmospherlc measurements technlques and results
and the -tatus of atmospherlc modellng.
J
time, to fund onsihalf the atmospherlc llfetlme experlment
(ALE) fo the next year (total cost approxlmately 5400,0007.
Thereforn FPP Hill reallocate authorlzed funds to support the
whole prmgram for the 51x months startlng 11/1/91. 71: Is
essentla that the Elva ALE statlons contlnue measurements
am will testlfy on the state of the sclence before the
November
Glycol Ehers
The pane Is conslderlng developlng exposure data and has
begun a lalsan program mm NPCA and CSMA. The panel Is also
program 1th EPA and/or OSHA.
Current .dvocacy actlvltles
1nvolve nteractlons Hlth NIDSH. ACGIH. and ECETDC.
ketones
The pane Is undertaklng an advocacy program on four
ketones m the ITC 115::
The
program nvolves developlng use and exposure 1nfomatlon, as
well as . Voluntary test program.
cm 0379-4
1
10
A Bniday Inhalatlon study on methyl Isobutyl ketone (man
Is curretly underway and reproductlon and teratology studles
are unde conslderatlon. The panel will follow closely comply
mentary Iestlng on methyl ethyl ketone by cm, and methyl
Isoamyl stone by Eastman Kodak. The panel met once mm EPA
on testlg recommendatlons for ketones under Sectlon 4137 and
Is develmplng a document for submlsslon to the Agency.
The
document will present summarles of toxlclty data on the four
ketones .nd use and exposure Infomatlon.
research program will also be Included.
Phosgene
Inltlal mm (Albert Elnsteln College of Medlcmey expo*
sure Nor will begln In early November.
Three Inustrlal
safety srveys and all the allled materlal pertlnent were
approved by the Englneerlng and Safety Task Group and the panel
on Octobr 14 and 15, respectlvely.
Phthalat Esters
Test Ruls Development Branch mum of EPA the Voluntary test
program 0 address potentlal health and envlronmental effects
TRUE Is urrently proceedlng Hlth
Agency rvlew of the program.
Dr. Hermndez. Deputy Admlnlstrator of EPA,
the mattr of DEEP at thls tune.
Is revlelng
almed at determlnlng the cause of the bloassay results, will he
presents to FDA.
The pane hopes that FDA will accept the
program n lleu of an Interlm regulatlon or ban on DEHA.
FDA and MA sclentlsts are exchanglng Vlews on the devel*
opment 0 regulatory actlons to assure publlc safety and the
contlnue use of an "Irreplaceable" substance In food contact
The PCB rogram Panel Is preparlng 1:: comments on several
Initiate to characterlze the nature and scope of chloroblphenyls whlch are Incldentally generated by the chemlcal Indus*
try to Ientlfy the number of pieces of electrlcal equlpment
whlch cotaln PCBS, the Volume of PCB: and thelr concentratlon
ranges. ata form these surveys are In the analysls stage and
Will be ncluded In the panel's submlsslon to EPA.
An analylcal narratlve dlssertatlon descrlblng the prob?
lems and costs assoclated mm lowilevel PCB analysls was
submltte to EPA on August 25, 1931.
am 03795
I
11
An analylcal roundirobln testlng program was Inltlated
1nclud1n laboratorles from member companles and EPA.
Its
purpose 5 m examlne Invarlablllty of results expected from
Varlous aboratorles.
Rubber Adltlves
The cm ubber Addltlves Panel Is revlewlng the flnal
The stud evaluated the genotoxlc propertles of three commerclal samples of the rubber
acceleraor 2*(Morphollnothloy benzothlazol esul fenamlde (MES).
The Fans Hill chemlcally analyze commerclal mlxtures of ms: to
evaluate the stablllty of the compound. The panel 15 currently
Investlg.t1ng Inltlatlng several other testlng programs on
of the rbber accelerator 2*(Morphollnothloy benzothlazolesul fenamlde 124557. The panel will chemlcally analyze commerclal
mlxtures of ms to evaluate the stablllty of the compound. The
panel Is currently Investlgatlng Inltlatlng several other test*
ZDDPS maufactured by Ethyl were subject to a battery of
1n Vltro tests. Posltlve results In some of the assays were
obtalned and Ethyl submltted the Infomatlon to EPA as an ad?
dendum .. a prevlous TSCA Sectlon may report on posslble
reproduclve effects assoclated mm these chemlcals.
Further
mutagenl1ty/carc1nogen1c1ty research on ZDDPS Is under coni
slderatl-n by the Panel. Phase II of the program will examlne
specles ulfferences mm respect to skln absozptlon of ZDDPS
and the se of the rabblt as a model for testlcular effects.
cm
1
cm arms
EXHIBIT ‘
REPORT 0 THE DIRECTOR 0F GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
WILLIAM . sTov‘ER
TAXATION
When Preldent Reagan made his publlc appeal last month on new
proposal to reach his overall budget goals, he rejected delays 1n
any of he recently enacted 1nd1v1dual tax reductlons. Instead,
bonds. .. accelerate the quarterly payment of corporate 1ncome
taxes. .. repeal busmess and 1nd1v1dual energy tax credlts, and to
llmlnate the practlce of allowlng certaln contractors to defer 1ncome
tax paymnts untll the last year of a multkyear contract.
In
addltlon the Presldent raiemphaslzed the need to enact leglslatlon
for addllonal user fees on boats. barges, and prlvate alrplanes.
by the Amlnlstratlon met strong opposltlon on Capltol 3111. Early
warnlng 1gnals from Senate Flnance Commlttee Chalrman Bob Dole
(RiKansa7 1nd1cated that at present a majorlty of the Senate would
prefer .. postpone the effectlve date of the Reagan 1nd1v1dual tax
Gusts fr-m July to October, both 1n 1992 and 1n 1933, rather than
to adopt new taxes so near an electlon year. on the other hand, the
pressure from the economy to bulld before dlrectly confrontlng the
For the omen: the Presldent's optlons appear to be llmlted 1n
1nterest
rates. rvenue flows to the Treasury, and 1nflatlon. At thls writing,
ENERGY;
NATURAL .AS
posltlon on natural gas deregulatlon 15 announced, 1: Hill 1nclude
a recommndatlon for accelerated phased decontrol of all natural
gas over a three year perlod. The present bellef 15 that an
have has consldered by the Congress. General prlnclples or gulde*
llnes fo leglslatlon, however, may be provlded to the Congress 1n
order to promote a hearlng process thls year. Congresslonal coni
slderatl-n Will also be 1nfluenced by the nearlng of the 1992 electlons.
2
Overslgh hearlngs on wellhead prices for natural gas have
been schduled by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Commlttee
for Noveber 5 and a. The hearlngs are expected to focus on
problems 1nvolved 1n 1mplement1ng the Natural Gas Pollcy Act (NGPA7
broader atural gas lssues, and cm has requested an opportunlty
support ontlnues to grow for the major elements of 3.x. 4350,
offered y Representatlve Phll Gramm (D7TX767.
The cm osltlon and supportlng 1nformatlon contlnues m be
provlded to key Admlnlstratlon offlclals and Congresslonal members.
preparln to offer a natural gas lssues brleflng to member company
Washlngt-n representatlves, posslbly 1n November. A natural gas
ENERGY;
mmmmc PREPAREDN'ESS
on Septeber 30, the Senate Energy and Natural Resourc s
Commltte completed markup of leglslatlon deslgned to deal Hlth a
1ntroducd by Chalman James A. McClure (Rim), were 1ncluded 1n
the Elna Verslon. The Standby Petroleum Allocatlon Act of 1991
15mm w-uld provlde the Presldent mm broad dlscretlonary authorll
and offs a 115: of optlons 1n the event of a severe petroleum
prlorlty provlslons of the EPAA were added, 1nclud1ng a provlslon
for petr-chemlcals. The mu 1: ready for Senate floor actlon and
actlvlty could occur 1n late October.
Markup h.s been delayed' 1n the House Energy and Commerce Sub?
commltte on Fossll and Synthetlc Fuels, and probably will not be
CHowever Chalman thp R. sharp (DrIerD) dle
1ntroduc a b111, 3.x. 47mm, 51ml“ 1n many respects to the unamem
Senate Vrslon. The Standby Authorlty Petroleum Allocatlon Act of
but woul requlre adoptlon of regulatlons conslstent mm the
prlorltls speclfled 1n the old EPAA.
that no eglslatlon 15 necessary and that free market forces can
best all-cate resources.
imminent the CMA effort will be to assure recognltlon of a high
prlorlty for feedstocks, as 1n the Senate mu.
CLEAN AI ACT AMENDMENTS
The Reag.n Admlnlstratlon 15 beglnnlng m provlde some of the
momentum necessary for amendment of the Clean Alr Act.
1
3
In late .eptember, Presldent Reagan reafflrmed "the Admlnlsi
tratlon' keen Interest In seemg Congress make much needed
correctl-ns m the Clean Alr Act thls year", In a letter to Senate
Majorlty Leader Howard Baker and to House Mlnorlty Leader Robert Mlchel.
prlorlty 1n the area of regulatory resom", and changes 1n the Act
Since thn. Vice Presldent Bush has begun selectlvely coni
tactlng embers of the Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee
and the ouse Energy and Commerce Commlttee to encourage development
announce by EFA Admlnlstrator Anne Gorsuch 1n early August.
Senator obert T. Stafford HHITJ, Chalrman of the Senate CommlttEE,
now has taff worklng to develop consensus and leglslatlve language
new pace could be a reflectlon of the fact that Stafford has just
announce he 15 runnlng for raielectlon, and thus seeks closer tles
Hlth the Admlnlstratlon.
on Octobr 13, cm representatlves met mm the Senate Commlttee
staff to dlscuss recently released draft leglslatlve language. Our
De: rlor-tlon (Psm proposals, but we focused prlmarlly on the
Hazardou Alr Pollutants porgram proposals (Sectlon 1127.
In the H-uSE, there has been llttle movement toward the draftlng
Chalrman John D. mngen (DrMIrlay and Ranklng Mlnorlty Leader
James T. Broyhlll (RrNCrlD). Industry hopes to generate 1nterest 1n
followln the hearlngs 1n the Subcommlttee on Health and the
Envlronmnt, whlch are scheduled through November 9.
ments of the Clean Alr Act will be dellvered at hearlngs of the
statemen on all cm recommended revlslons Will be submltted for
Our Clea Alr Act leglslatlve program contlnues to 1nclude
actlve p.rt1c1patlon 1n a broad busmess coalltlon organlzed to
work for amendments thls year. We helped develop the coalltlon's
consensu document detalllng 12 baslc areas of necessary change 1n
the Act 0 "make 1: work". We are cooperatlng 1n sharlng the document
Hlth Conresslonal members and staff 1n order to show 1ndustry unlty
am 03795
4
Further. as part of our objectlve to generate both publlc
the Clea Alr Act, 3 cm "Actlon Advlsory" was lssued on September 25
to all mmber companles, urglng: contact mm Senators and
groups; -nd, encouragement of others to help carry the message.
Rep. Tob Moffett (DiConnJ September 10 sent a letter to
your decslon not to lssue a natlonal groundwater strategy at thls
tune." 24.55355 maln concern 1: that the Admlnlstratlon Will not
contlnue worklng on a Natlonal Groundwater Pollcy Guldance Docum nt.
1
In the p-st, Moffett has threatened to 1ntroduce federal
leglslaton to regulate groundwater 15 a Natlonal Pollcy was not
develops Hlthln EPA. Moffet's Subcommlttee on Envlronment, Energy
Hill conuct an overslght hearlng October 21, 1991 m dlscuss mm
and othe lssues.
CLEAN WIER ACT
Commltte- completed work on 3.x. 4503 (Roe. mum to authorlze for
one yea (M 19327 52.4 bllllon for the sewage treatment constructlon
1: was specter! that Rep. Jim Dberstar (Drum would
offer a amendment that would extend the 1994 date for achlevlng
Best Av.lable Technology (BAT).
1
The Cle. Water Act Task Group of the Government Relatlons
Commltte‘. expressed the followlng concerns Hlth the Dberstar
of the ash Water Act 1n 1932.
These ne-ds go far beyond a slmple extenslon of
mule we support an extenslon of the 1994 BAT date,
we have . deep concern that the 1ncluslon of such
Vlew of 1tles 3 and 4 next year.
fl
1234
cm 037.15
5
r
an
d
The T5: Group contacted key members of the Publlc Works
but the onstructlon grants b111, 3.x. 4503, could be brought to
the Hou- floor by the end of October, and Mr. Dberstar 15 conslderlng
offerln ms amendment at that tune. The Task Group will be expresslng
amendme mm key members of the House, and stresslng the need for
complet-d 1:: work on the constructlon grants b111, s. 1274. Durlng
the seslon the Commlttee Voted unanlmously to repeal the Industrlal
Cost Exluslon provlslon (the scicalled Stafford Amendment). cm
submltt-d a letter supportlng the repeal of ICE to all members of
am has .een granted the rlght to 1ntervene 1n the New Jersey
Attorne General's lawsult on praiemptlon agalnst the Federal
Governm-nt. Judge Flannery of the v.5. Dlstrlct Court for the
Dlstrlc of Columbla will now hear the Federal Government's motlon
Amy Cows of Englneers be used to 35515: 1n the cleanup of
became .oncerned about the use of the Corps for cleanup and asked
cm for 1:: Vlews.
In a le-ter to my: Davld Stockman dated
Septembr 15, CMA strongly supported the use of prlvate contractors
1n the eslgn and constructlon work requlred under Superfund. CMA
531d th Corps presently does not have the experlence'or tralned
personnl that Will be necessary to conduct the remedlal cleanup
program called for 1n Superfund.
Rep. Fl-rlo held an overslght hearlng on the Superfund law
July 29, before his Subcommlttee on Commerce, Transportatlon and
Tourlsm of the House Energy and Commerce Commlttee. Durlng the
hearlng, Florlo developed a dlscusslon on jolnt and several llablllty
Hlth EP'S Gorsuch and Department of Justlce's Carol mnkms that
appears to confuse the lssues. cm therefore felt 1: necessary
several llablllty. We contend that the fallure of Congress to pro*
were thn crltlzed by Senator Robert Stafford ”Hm 1n the Congre57
slonal 'ecord of September 9.
cm 037.17
a
am has learned that a draft of proposed 1ntezpretatlve
revlewe Hlthln the Internal Revenue Servlce. We antlelpate that
the proosed regulatlons Will be movlng forward from the ms to
the Tre.sury Department Within the next few weeks.
INTERNAIDNAL TRADE;
EXPORT.IF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
Commerc on February 17, 1991 proposals for changes 1n exlstlng
notlflc.tlon systems for exports of "hazardous... substances. A
large poportlon of pestlclde exports would be most affected along
Hlth prducts eventually to be restrlcted under TSCA. The Reagan
Admlnls-ratlon has dropped any plans for control or prohibition of
such exorts as provlded for 1n Presldent Carter's executlve order
whlch Pesldent Reagan subsequently revoked.
Since F-bruary, the Commerce and State Departments have eni
counter-d dlsagreements 1n writing the jolnt response. The most
serlous dlfference of opinion 15 through what channels 1nformatlon
15 m b passed from the v.5. exporter m the country recelvlng the
v.5. emassy of the recelvlng country. Another lssue 1n the jolnt,
respons Will be whether recommendatlons are made to amend approi t
prlate -ectlons of exlstlng 17mm and TSCA laws. The cm posltlon)
that TSI should not be amended for thls purpose has been strongly?
emphasled by our spokesman.
The am has worked closely Hlth government offlclals durlng
thls press: of evaluatlon. Close liaison Hlth *the Natlonal
Agrlculural Chemlcals Assoclatlon and the Pharmaceutlcal Manufatk
turers ssoclatlon has been malntalned and a fully coordlnated
posltlo malntalned.
comment on the flnal draft before 1: 15 approved by an 1nteragency"
commltte.
trade arangements Hlth Mexlco and Canada. Tenslons mm Canada ;
over 1:- Natlonal Energy Flan and the Federal Investment Revlew Act
and Hit Mexlco on a number of lssues have served to helghten the '
The Pre-ldent made a report to Congress on a North Amerlcan t»
unlon 0 July 2a. 315 Visits Hlth Mexlcan Presldent Lopez Portlllo
and Can.dlan Prune Mlnlster Trud au have been only prellmlnarles but
am 03719
1
7
Evldenc grows that Mexlco and Canada are seeklng duty free access
to the .5. petrochemlcal market. The Admlnlstratlon has stated
that 1: wlshes to free up markets and trade flows. 1: 15 llkely
that perochemlcal agreements will eventually be made. v.5.
chemlca exports to Canada 1n 1980 were 52.1 bllllon and to Mexlco,
cm 15 alntalnlng close liaison mm a Senate Caucus and a
been set to v.5. Trade Representatlve Brock by Mr. Leo Johnstone,
Phillip Petroleum Company. The letter emphaslzes the chemlcal
1ndustr stake 1n a trade arrangement, and requests that the 1ndustry
b kept nfomed of developments affectlng chemlcals 1n the hope that
Varlous pieces of leglslatlon 1n the Congress deallng mm
Canadla government pollcy have been 1ntroduced but are not llkely
to see ignlflcant actlon soon.
SEMINAR PLANNED
hold a rade semlnar at the Marrlott Hotel. 22nd and M Streets.
Washlngon, v_c. M11: Hunt, Chalman of the me, Will preslde.
Subject of 1nterest to chemlcal companles Will be covered thoroughly
Feature Will be an 1ntroductory overvlew by Leo Johnstone, Executlve
Vlc Preldent 7 Phillips Petroleum Company. Ambassador 5111 Brock
Hill spak at a dlnner December a.
Brochurs mm detalls and a reglstratlon form will be wldely
dlstrlbted on October 23.
on Septmber 29 the House approved 3.x. 3495, the Energy and
Commerc Commlttee mu m reauthorlze TSCA for two years at a
fundlng level of $52 million (plus 51.5 million for state programs).
5. 1211 passed by the Senate last May, would reauthorlze TSCA for
one yea at 559.5 mllllon. A Conference 1: expected to resolve the
contlnus to respond to Congressman Florlo's staff 1n thelr efforts
cm 037-19
9
study 0 the adequacy of the PMN test data, although the letter
formall requestlng am to begln work has not been sent.
In the
meantlm, cm 15 worklng Hlth EPA to produce a Vlable PMN exemptlon:
pollcy or new, low rlsk chemlcals under sectlon 121m of TSCA,
as well as the negotlatlons between the v.5. and 0mm, regardlng
languag to remedy chemlcal 1ndustry concerns.
on Septmber 23 Senator Paula Hawklns' (RiFlaJ Overslght and
Investlatlons Subcommlttee began long awalted hearlngs on OSHA
and rec-mmendatlons for the future. Thorns Auchter was commended
for his efforts to redirect the Agency away from 1:5 prevlous
what he percelved m be an "emasculatlon" of worker protectlons
but on he wholE, Auchtdr stood up well to the questlonlng and made
The Reaan Admlnlstratlon Will not be movlng toward leglslatlve
change n thls area untll other prlorltles are handled and there
has has an opportunlty m determlne whlch admlnlstratlve refoms
the purose of developlng recommendatlons for OSHA reform at the
approprate tune.
HAZARDS CDMMUNICATIDNS/LABELING
contlnud 1:5 hearlngs on osaA's wlthdrawal of 1:: proposed hazards
Company Master testlfled agalnst the orlglnal proposed OSHA stands
from a mall chemlcal company standpolnt, provldlng detall as to ho"
The nex hearlngs have been scheduled for November 3, at whlch OSHA!
Thorns uchter Hill testlfy on labellng as well as other matters
Hlthln he framework of OSHA overslght.
and to ork mm Subcommlttee members responslve m 1ndustry posltlo
1n deveopment of a new performance*or1ented, cost effectlve and
reasona-le hazards communlcatlons standard.
on Septmber 24 the House 5m nee Subcommlttee on Res arch and.
Technol-QY, chalred by Doug Walgren (DiPaJ, held a hearlng on
cm 037.20
9
Congresman Don thter's (RiPaJ Rlsk Analysls Research and
and dem-nstratlon program under the dlrectlon of the Whlte House
Offlce .5 Sclence and Technology Pollcy. 1: would authorlze
51.7 mllllon for a twoiyear government R L n program to 1mprove
rlsk an-lysls technlques 1n regulatory declslonmaklng, and a twoyear rlsk analysls study by regulatory agencles and the Natlonal
Sclence Foundatlon.
Testlfyng 1n favor of the mm were Congressman Jim Martln
“Ham. Congressman thter, Attorney Mlchael Baram, and Brooklngs'
Whlte H-use Task Force on Regulatory Rellef, testlfled on behalf of
the Admnlstratlon. Dr. Mlller agreed Hlth the goals and concepts of
the legslatlon, but could not give 1: ms offlclal support. In
mechanlms Within OMB (1.e., the Task Force on Regulatory Rehecy
wlthout addltlonal approprlatlons.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
The dlferlng Senate and House mus that reauthorlze and
actlon. 3.x. 3403 1: Scheduled for October 1415 and s. 950 should
be Vote on by the end of October. CMA 15 explorlng the posslbllltles
unlfomty of hazardous materlals transportatlon laws. There 15 also
a possl-lllty of efforts to add undeslrable floor amendments.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
RAILRDAI DEREGULATIDN
Commercn Sclence and Transportatlon Commlttee for November 10. Th
sesslon. CMA 1: 1n the process of preparlng comments to be submltted
for the record and may present testlmony.
TRANSPD'TATIDN:
MARITIM REFORM
belng c-nsldered. Hearlngs were held 1n late September before the
cm 037921
10
Senate ommerCE, Sclence and Transportatlon Subcommlttee on
Merchan Marlne. cm presented testlmony on s. 1593, a mu
offers by Chalrman Slade Gorton 1R7Wash.) and ﬁlled a supplemental
wltness. Actlvlty has also begun 1n the House Merchant Marlne
hearln for October 7, 13, and 19. cm 15 preparlng :9 ﬁlls a
end of lctober.
TRANSPI'TATIDN t
There 15 1ncreaslng 1nterest 1n leglslatlon deallng mm the
1nland aterways system and harbors and ports. User fees are a
major omponent of Presldent Reagan's economc proposals, and
leglsl.1on 15 belng 1ntroduced to permit authorltles to collect us
fees :- repay 1mprovement and development costs. Proposals are bel
c1rcul.ed and hearlngs could be announced 1n both the Senate and
House. CMA 15 worklng mm a coalltlon of organlzatlons as the
lssues and tlmetables unfold.
cm 15 actlvely seeklng passage of ombus regulatory reform
leglsl.tlon. Cooperatlng Hlth allled busmess groups behlnd the
leadershlp of the Busmess Roundtable, CMA has asslsted 1n the
Senato Paul Laxalt (R7NeV—7. The focus has been to secure amend?
ments man would provlde that "good sclence" be consldered a prlni
alpal Iactor 1n the regulatory recom declslonimaklng process.
5. me has been reported mm amendments by both the Senate
Jud1c1.ry Commlttee and the Senate Government Affalrs Commlttee.
CMA'S "good sclence" amendments. CMA 15 worklng to assure that a
In the HouSE, the Judlclary Subcommlttee on Admlnlstratlve
1
u
PATENT:
RESTD'TIDN 0F THE PATENT ram
restor- to the term of a patent grant the perlod durlng whlch
ne d :- secure Federal regulatory approval.
The ke mm: on thls subject are 5. 255 (Mathlasﬂiide and
3.x. 1-37 (Kastlnmeleriljivhsd and they are substantlally Similar.
Th Sen.te mu passed 1n July. The House Judlclary Subcommlttee
on Couts. awn Libertles, and the Admlnlstratlon of Justlce began
1:5 he.r1ngs on thls subject 1n September and held subsequent hearlngs
1n Dct-ber.
cm 15 worklng 1n 3 busmess coalltlon under the leadershlp of
the Ph.maceut1cal Manufacturers' Assoclatlon to secure passage.
PATENT:
UNIFIEI comm 0F APPEALS
on Dct-ber 14, 1931, the House Judlclary Commlttee favorably
reportd, mm amendments. 3.x. 4432, a mu m establlsh a smgle
court .5 patent appeals. Th1: mu may be taken up on the House
floor nder suspenslon of the rules Hlthln the next few weeks.
by the Senate Judlclary Commlttee on Tuesday, October 20. The key
155“ a- that time Will be a proposed amendment by Senator Baucus
(DiMon-J to allow the present Federal Clrcult Courts of Appeal to
retaln jurlsdlctlon over patent appeals. CMA 15 worklng closely 1n
the co.lltlon of allled busmess 1nterests 1n support of 5.. 17m,
and 1n opposltlon m the Baucus amendment.
sum: FFAIRS
sum: FFAIRS SPECIAL COMMITTEE:
INTERNL DEVELOPMENTS
At 1:: September 17 meetlng, the State Affalrs Speclal Commlttee
alr an surface water lssues at the state level. Th1: paralleled a
51mlla brleflng on Federal Superfund luvplementatlon made at the
prior eetlng.
12
ISSUE IASK snows
approV-d by the Executlve Commlttee and Board at thelr Septemb r
meetlnn. the Commlttee addressed 1:: leglslatlve and regulatory
prlorl-les for 1932. Th1: process began Hlth the dlstrlbutlon
of a 5.5m lssues survey whlch canvassed all member companles,
cm 5:.56, and key technlcal commlttees. Based upon the results
of the more than 100 responses recelved, the Commlttee establlshed
lssue ask groups 1n the followlng areas:
a
e
e
e
Hazardmus Waste Dlsposal (Superfund and Sltlng)
Hazard- Communlcatlon (R1ght*to*Know7
Hazardnus Materlals Transportatlon
Envlromental (Alr and Water oualltyy
Wlthln 1:5 asslgned subject area, each lssue task group Hill:
a
e
e
e
e
monlto the 1ntroductlon and progress of State
where .pproprlate Assoclatlon pollcy does not
exlst, work mm cm technlcal and functlonal
pollcy
workln through member companles and approprlate
local ntltles. seeks to coordlnate 1ndustry
provld support, through the State Affalrs Speclal
1n ordr to assure a conslstent Federal/State pollcy.
Octobe meetlngs were held so that lssue task groups could
organle, address any remalnlng 1991 leglslatlve and/or regulatory
propos.ls, revlew 1991 actlvlty, establlsh contact mm the corresp<
pollcy develop procedures and asslgn responslbllltles for 1nformat:
actlve and dlscuss advocacy mechanlsms and coalltlons. Issu task
groups will contlnue these meetlngs through the fall to prepare for
the bemmng of the 1992 leglslatlve sesslons.
FUNCTIINAL TASK snows
The St.te Affalrs Speclal Commlttee establlshed two functlonal
state rogram.
13
a
e
serve as the forum for the periodic screenlng
and s_lectlon of Vendors of electronlc leglsi
latlv. and regulatory tracklng servlcesi
monlt-r the performance of the contractlng
Vendos and serve as a liaison between the
cheml-al 1ndustry subscrlbers and the elec*
tronl- servlces suppllers;
sessl-ns for member company personnel on
Th1: .ask group fomallzes the efforts of an ad hoc group of chemlcal
1ndu5-ry companles who contracted Hlth an electronlc state mm and
regul.tory tracklng servlce for 1991. mm these contracts expiring
at th and of December. the task group has been engaged 1n selectlng
an aproprlate Vendor for 1932. Th1: process 15 now complete and
contr.cts are expected to be Signed 1n early November. In addltlon,
the t_sk group 15 actlvely encouraglng addltlonal member companles
servles.
regul.tory matters for the chemlcal 1ndustry. The Network Task
Group H1115
e
e
e
by dr.w1ng upon the resources of CMA member
compales and Industry Counclls, develop a
reglser of personnel to provlde the basls
for bth 1ntelllgence gatherlng and advocacy
efforsi
and bsmess assoclatlons m facllltate the
exchage of 1nfomatlon and the coordlnatlon
provlwe through 1:: personnel reglster, addltlonal
thelr dellvery capabllltles;
seek o enhance the effectlveness and 1nfluence
of th chemlcal 1ndustry 1n the Varlous states
focal polnts for local efforts.
cm 0.7925
14
meet ersonally mm members of the Varlous CIC'S. Durlng Septembex
and Tnnessee were Visited.
1991 EGISLATIVE ACTIVITY WINDING DOWN
The V-st majorlty of state leglslatures have adjourned for
the y-ar mm only a few of the major 1ndustrlal states remalnlng
1n reular sesslon. A few states are 1n speclal sesslon m consldex
some .ctlvlty thls fall 1n several states on two of our prlorlty
on S-otember 24, Governor Brown Signed 1nto law SB 618 whlch
Supefund. Startlng mm three wldely dlvergent mus sponsored by
comp-tlng 1nterests, the flnal product 1513 51m reflects Significant
succ-ss on the part of the chemlcal 1ndustry. Although some of the
Elna Verslon 1: much more reasonable than the radlcal proposal
advoated by the Brown admlnlstratlon and 1:5 envlronmental supports
on he whole, 1ndustry worked closely and effectlvely on thls issue.
cm ontrlbuted the servlces of 1:: legal staff to 35515: 1n draftln'
langage durlng late June and early July. Also, the Callfornla (:1:
has ecsntly declded to establlsh a permanently staffed offlce.
In NH Jersey, dlscusslons are contlnulng concernlng proposed
whlc predates Federal Superfund. Compllcatlng these dlscusslons
are he lawsults brought by Elva New Jersey companles (Exxon, Tennec
BF G-odrlch. Monsanto and Unlon Carblde) 1n New Jersey, and by the
Stat- of New Jersey agalnst EFA 1n Washlngton 1n whlch cm 1nterv net
15 reempted by Federal Superfund. 1: 15 5:111 posslble that the
New Jersey Leglslature Will take up thls subject 1n lame duck sesslor
1n ovember. am has worked closely durlng the past several months
Hit both the cm and the lltlgants group to keep all partles fully
1nfrmed.
Healngs were held on September 15 1n Madlson, Wlsconsln, on
AB .15 whlch 15 sponsored by Assemblywoman Muntz.
to nsure that 1:: most damaglng provlslons are not passed.
15
on the munlclpal level, Clnclnnatl, Dhlo scheduled hearlngs
1n October on an ordlnance that 15 potentlally Very unfavorable
to 1ndustry. Santa Monlca, Callfornla, 15 also movlng on a
K
MA 037927
