CMA has sent to -Very Senator and every House Member 3 letter 1n opposltlon
m freezlng of .tural gas wellhead prices and extendlng of price controls. As
the deflclencles of exlstlng law regardlng natural gas and the need to deal mm
mvmommn
Admlnlstratlon -fflclals that contlnue to alts thls as a top economlc priority.
Senate Majorlty leader Howard Baker and other Senate leaders 1nterested
1n Clean Alr Ac amendment needed to be convlnced by the Whlte House W not
the only Senate Vehlcle contlnues to be the unsatlsfaatory mu reported
November 15 by he Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Commlttee, s. 3041
(Report No. 977557. Th1: b111, otherwlse known as the "Stafford 13111", 15
opposed by the ndustry Coalltlon as well as the Admlnlstratlon. The Sectlon
112 (hazardous .1r pollutant), acld raln and PSD (Preventlon of Significant
Deterloratlon) rovlslons are especlally damaglng.
Robert Stafford mam who would Shepherd 5. 3041 on the Senate floor, he has
shown no 1nteret 1n further conslderatlon. There already are indications
that Envlronmen- Commlttee staff are preparlng "1mprovements" for the mu
next year. The enate Commlttee's loss of two northwestern members replaced
by another New lnglander and a mldiwesterner probably will be helpful to
1ndustry next y-ar.
5252, (severely damaged durlng markiup relatlve :9 PSD and Sectlon 1127 has
been pendlng 1n the Energy and Commerce Commlttee Since August. In the new
Congress, 1: 15 unclear whether the Commlttee balance of power will remaln
the 5mm. or ho and when a comprehenslve Clean Alr mu mlght be 1ntroduced.
Furthermore, we do not know whether Congressman James Broyhlll (Rina)
can contlnue to prevent passage of a Commlttee mu contalnlng adverse PSD
CMA 039041
or Sectlon 112 rovlslons. We do know that Congressman Bllly Tauzln (DiLA)
Congressman Jams Florlo mimy the Sectlon 112 automatlc llstlng/dellstlng
amendment to H.'. 5252.
1: 15 entlrely 955mm that thls Commlttee Will
have an even stonger envlronmental :11: next year.
I
I
By m1d71983, :n- effort will be made to pass some type of Clean Alr
Act amendment 1 order to stave off EPA enforcement of sanctlons 1n areas
not attalnlng plmary amblent alr quallty standards. These sanctlons,
1nclud1ng constuctlon bans and wlthholdlng of Federal funds for transports?
tlon and sewage treatment projects, become effectlve December 31, 1992 but
are not 1mmedlaely enforceable.
mvmommT;
CLEAN WATER ACT AMENDMENTS stiw
c
Earller thls ye.r EPA leaders determlned there was not enough time for
Congress to con-lder a comprehenslve package of Clean Water Act amendments
announcement of the speclal postielectlon sesslon roused some hopes that
way of amendmens.
t
I
I
Under the short b111, EPA 15 conslderlng major changes to the pretreat7
ment program, 11E: permlts for 10 years Hlth a "reopener clause..., partlal
BAT deadllnes, nd the conslderatlon of dams as polnt sources.
15 of prune 1mp-rtance m the chemlcal 1ndustry. The study provlslon 15 a
recognltlon tha the BAT lssue 15 unportant, but the chemlcal 1ndustry feels
Robert Stafford mam. held a general busmess meetlng on December 9 and dld
not conslder or report on any of the comprehenslve Clean water amendments,
mm only 3 Ver short tune remalnlng for Congress to take actlon, 1: appears
mental Pollutlo SubcommlttEE, to hold a hearlng on December 15, focuslng on
1993 and he Hll try to report amendments from his subcomlttee by March 15.
The Government 'elatlons Commlttee's Clean Water Act Task Group will con*
tlnue to work cm the necessary leglslatlve changes, partlcularly to the Best
Avallable Techmloqy (BAT) and pretreatment programs through an aggresslve
I
I
I
I
I
I
c
I
CMA 039042
CMA has develop-d an extenslve package of materlal on the hlstory of the
chemlcal 1ndusty's successes under the Clean Water Act and substantlve
materlal whlch s supportlve of our 1ndustry's proposed changes to the Act.
mvmommn
SENATE
on September a, the House, by a Vote of 317 m 32, approved 3.x. 5307,
sectlons of RC. Before flnal passage, the House agreed to a substltute whlch
altered the ml orlglnally reported by the House Energy and Commerce Commlttee
and 1ncozporat- modlflcatlons advocated by the House Publlc Works and Trans*
but not all, oi the problems that am 1n1tlally had mm the mm.
The House also .greed by Volce Vote to three amendments that were offered
on the floor. a flrst. offered by Mr. Flfthlan mrmm, Hill 1ncrease to en
and an amendme by Mr. Dannemeyer (RiCAL) Hill clarlfy the ellglblllty of
courts to awar costs. By recorded Votes, the House rejected amendments by
Mr. Gramm (D’T7 to restore the Small Quantlty Generator exemptlon and by
Mr. Dannemeyer (RiCAL) to delete the sectlon whlch broadens common law pro*
Visions.
The actlon shlted m the Senate Envlronment and Publlc Works Subcommlttee
on Envlronment.l Pollutlon whlch reported a new package of RCRA amendments on
September 23. 1nce a number of lssues contalned 1n thls amendments package
are Very contr-Verslal (landflll Van, mandatory inspectlons and small generator
1ncluslon7: th- Commlttee staff spent the next couple of months attemptlng to
develop a cons-nsus on language. Under pressure to reach a consensus on these
1mportant issu-S. Senator Robert Stafford mam set the RCRA amendments Esme
his number two prlorlty 1n 1993 and Will try to report a mm from his sub?
REGULATORY REFIRM LEGISLATION PROBABLY STALLED
Very llttle po-slblllty now exlsts that 3.x. 745, the Omnlbus Regulatory
busmess coall-lon whlch supports passage of thls leglslatlon had apparently
secured House eadershlp support for a compromlse that 15 close to the acceptable
language of 5. men whlch passed the Senate last sprlng. Th1: compromlse would
be presented t the House by an amendment 1n the nature of a substltute whlch
would be offer-d by Congressman Sam M. Hall (DiTxy and Congressman Tom Klndness
CMA 039043
t
I
Late breaklng npposltlon m the House Rules Commlttee to grantlng a
rule to permit floor conslderatlon of 3.x. 74a and the Hall/Klndness amendment
has all but foeclosed the possibility of passage 1n the 97th Congress.
:I
:'I
PATENT TERM RETDRATIDN BLOCKED m RULES COMMITTEE
Passage of 3.11 5444, the Patent Tenn Restoratlon Act, 15 only a dlm
possibility 1n the postielectlon sesslon of Congress. Th1: 1mportant leglslatlon would extend the term of a patent by up to 7 years for the perlod durlng
whlch commercl.l use of a product or process 15 delayed because of government
The prlnclpal mbstacle m passage of 3.x. 5444 15 obtalnlng an approprlate
rule from the ouse Commlttee on Rules to brlng thls mu up for a Vote on the
House floor.
1: 15 antlclpaed that 3.x. a444, whlch earller recelved only
4 Votes less tan the twoithlrds requlred for passage of mu: consldered on
suspenslon of he rules, would then be passed by the House. The busmess
conslderatlon us the mm and germane amendments on the House floor.
:I
:'I
I
The outlook 15 bleak because two powerful Rules Commlttee members
mmsponmnou
The blggest obtacle m passage of a maritime recom mu 1n the post*
electlon 5e551m seems to be a threatened flllbuster by Senator Howard M.
Metzenbaum mam. Senator Wllllam Proxmlre miwm has 1nd1cated that he
will support a effort to prevent passage of the leglslatlon, and Senators
Max Baucus 1mm and J. James Exon mium may also reglster opposltlon.
drawn. Even th-ugh there 15 only llmlted opposltlon m the shlpper/carrler
Slade Gorton 17sz that floor tune Will be scheduled to brlng up the measure,
but 15 15 evldnt. given the othernssues present and ltems scheduled, that
there may not a enough time for a floor Vote.
Floor actlon 1 scheduled for December 10, yet the mu could well be
carrled on the agenda for the remalnder of the sesslon. The Senate mu under
conslderatlon as been revlsed and more closely reflects the House passed Verslon.
The revlslons -re supported by cm, the shlpper/carrler coalltlon, and the
Admlnlstratlon Addltlonal CMA proposed technlcal and substantlve amendments
have also been baslcally 1ncozporated 1nto the substltute Senate Verslon.
Clarlfylng flo-r statements have further been prepared and the mu has, 1n
essenCE. been 'pre*conferenced" Hlth Members and staff of the House Merchant
Marlne and Judclary Commlttees.
m
I
I
CMA 039044
1mmedlately 1n the next Congress. Consensus among Coalltlon members 15
doubtful, and he arduous draftlng process to date has left 1n questlon many of
averted what w.s 1n1tlally an unbalanced carrler rellef mu. Nearly a year
of negotlatlon Hlth leglslatlve sponsors, carrler representatlves and the
Admlnlstratlon have resulted 1n substantlal agreement on the dlrectlon of
leglslatlon afectlng the v.5. maritime fleet. 1: 15 belleved by all partles
that progress as been made.
TRADE:
There 15 concen 1n the Congress about the $20 bllllon trade deflclt mm
Japan and a gr-wlng concern about v.5. trade pollcy. The fallure of the GATT
Mlnlsterlal me-tlng 1n late November 1992 has caused a further deepenlng of thls
concern.
Senator John D.nforth mimm of the Senate Flnance Commlttee and Chalman
of 1:5 Intern.1onal Trade SubcommlttEE, focused Congresslonal trade pollcy
1:
tectlon of 1nt-llectual property rlghts, and 1nequ1table 1nvestment restrlctlons
The mm was enerally acceptable to both the Senate and the House on 1::
merlts. The Senate Flnance Commlttee reported the b111, but potentlally
a floor Vote. The mm was than added by the Senate to a Bonsaipassed
mlscellaneous tarlff b111, 3.x. 4559 (The Internatlonal Trade and 1nvestment Acm.
However. the ouse Ways and Means Commlttee dld not act on s. 2094, except to
hold hearlngs.
The chemlcal ndustry took a great deal of 1nterest 1n thls major piece of
Coalltlon eff-rt to get the mu passed. cm adopted a pollcy of approval of
the b111, and opposed amendments. of partlcular concern was the proposed Frenzel
amendment, H.'. 4751 (Sectlon 124 of the Trade Act of 19747, to 1nclude extenslon
of the Presld-nt's authorlty to further reduce tarlffs.
The 98th Congas: Will take up leglslatlon of thls nature. At thls tune,
1: 15 not cle.r whether 1: Will be 1n the same form as s. 2094.
In any case,
the new Congrss 15 llkely m be more protectlonlst than the last one. Th1:
poses serlous problems, partlcularly 15 the mu requlrlng all cars sold 1n
the Unlted St.tes to use up to en percent Amerlcan parts and labor, 13.1}. 51357,
contlnues 1:: current popularlty 1n the Congress.
TRADE
The Unlted St.tes has establlshed a program of negotlatlng bllateral
CMA 039045
1nvestment tratles Hlth developmg countrles. Egypt and Panama have recently
Signed such teatles. There are twentyislx other countrles under actlve
conslderatlon by the Trade Representatlve's Offlce for future treatles. am
conslderable romlse for resolvlng some of the forelgn 1nvestment problems of
the future. F-r thls reason. an actlve liaison has been establlshed between
the CMA Inves-ment Pollcy Task Group and the Trade Representatlve's Offlce.
Th1: group exacts m provlde advlce and am to the Trade Representatlve's
effectlve 1n he 1nvestment area 1: enhanced by the membershlp of Mr. Dexter
Baker (Alr Prduct57 on Ambassador Brock's Investment Pollcy Advlsory Commlttee.
TRADE: . REPD'T 0F HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES FEDERAL PoLICy
Fomatlon of .n Admlnlstratlon pollcy on the export of hazardous sub?
stances remals actlve and close to a concluslon. on February 17, 1931,
Presldent Reaan revoked a Presldent Carter Executlve Order whlch put controls
on the export of hazardous or restrlcted products. The major stake for the
reglstered 1n the Unlted States. The Presldent, at the same time, requested
from the Secrtarles of Commerce and State a proposal to 1mprove the export
notlflcatlon ystem already exlstlng 1n Varlous laws.
A jolnt propoal from Secretarles Baldrldge and Hall; was cleared by a
Trade Pollcy ommlttee chalred by Trade Representatlve Ambassador Brock.
1n developmen of the proposal was contlnued Hlth the Visit of a small delegatlon
'm the Whlte House staff person responslble for the Whlte House course of actlon.
Subsequently, the draft proposal for a new Presldent Reagan Executlve Order was
publlshed,
1: calls for ER regulatlons and leglslatlve proposals. The draft
TRADE:
U.S./MEXICAN ETRDCHEMICAL DIchssIoNs
from a large xpanslon of petrochemlcal capaclty 1n Mexlco, Canada and Saudl
Arabla 1n the face of exlstlng, extreme overcapaclty 1n the tradltlonal prof
ducmg countres. After a dlscusslon between Presldent Reagan and Presldent
Portlllo of Mxlco, a Joint Commlsslon on Colrenerce and Trade (JCCT7 was formed
and 1ndustry lscusslons on Elva sectors, 1nclud1ng pertochemlcals, were agreed
upon.
I
k
CMA 039045
of objectlves for the dlscusslons whlch were approved by the Executlve Commlttee
and forwards to the Department of Commerce. These objectlves Will be consldered
fully along th those of the offlclal advlsors group.
had quletly -gotlated a new bllateral trade agreement. The 1ntent of the agree*
ment was to -duce Mexlcan subsldlzatlon of 1ndustrlal goods 1n return for
appllcatlon .5 the 1njury test 1n v.5. countervalllng duty actlons agalnst
Mexlco does -t belong to the GATT and therefore, cannot Sign the GATT sub?
Sldles code. In learnlng of the trade agreement, cm unmedlately made known 1::
Trade Repres-ntatlve's Offlce convened a small meetlng Hlthln two days, Hlth
ment. on healng of thls development, the Mexlcan government wlthdrew 1::
submlt the areement m the 1ndustry consultatlve process and approach Mexlco
agaln, whlle the draft trade agreement had the well 1ntentloned objectlve of
um;
om upon a PMN woman EXPECTED m JANUARY
The flnal reort on DTA'S revlew of the quallty and quantlty of the mcop
at the reque-t of congressman Florlo (Drum. Expectatlons were that the flnal
campalgn to equlre a flxed set of testlng for all new chemlcals, slmllar to
the European-' am Amendment and 0mm: Mlnlmum Premarket Data. Prellmlnary
admlnlstratl-n of the PMN Program.
TSCA:
GAD sway 0F mus UNDERWA‘I
Congressman 'lorlo recently requested another study of the PMN program,
thls one by he Government Accountlng Offlce (GAD). Th1: study will analyze
EPA'S proces- for revlewlng Pm: and maklng declslons of unreasonable rlsk; the
the procedur.l and pollcy dlfferences between the v.5. and Europeans approach,
1nclud1ng te-tlng, exemptlons and follow up procedures. One part of the GAO
study 15 expcted to be done by February, mm the balance to be completed by.
the end of he summer.
CMA 039047
TSCA:
GAD sway 0N SECTION 4 TESTING COMPLETED
Publlc Works Commlttee on EPA'S Implementatlon of Selected Aspects of TSCA.
Th1: study fncuses on EPA'S use and legallty of negotlated/Voluntary testlng
agreements 1 lleu of formal test rules under sectlon 4 of TSCA; the asbestos
study 15 due for release on December 22, 1932, and no "bombshells" are expected.
I
TSCA REAUTHDIZATIDN/DVERSIGHT HEARINGS m 1993
Congressman lorlo (Drum antlclpates a comprehenslve revlew of EPA'S
1mplementat1-n of TSCA 1n reauthor12atlon hearlngs 1n the 98th Congress. No
dates have ben set, and all Subcommlttee chalmanshlps and jurlsdlctlons must
be approved arly 1n 1933. Nevertheless, Mr. Florlo 1: expected to contlnue
m chalr the Subcommlttee Hlth responslblllty for TSCA (presently Commerce and
Transportaumy. He 15 llkely to hold TSCA reauthorlzatlon and overslght hearlngs
1n the Febru-ryitoimarch tlmeframe, dependlng 1n part on his schedule for deallng
groundwater. rallroad leglslatlon and the llke. Mr. Florlo 15 531d :9 be welghlng
amendments t- TSCA and CMA 15 preparlng to counter efforts to open up a law
whlch. glven reasonable unplementatlon, 15 a Vlable and effectlve approach to
regulatlng h.zardous chemlcal substances.
In the Senat, on the other hand. some uncertalntles surround the Envlronment
and Publlc W-rks Commlttee. Senators Slade Gorton (RiwashJ (who chalred the
(RiAlaskm h-Ve chosen to leave thls Commlttee. Replaclng them Will be
Senators Goron Humphrey “Hm, and Dave Durenberger mmmm, one of who may
chalr the Suncommlttee mm jurlsdlctlon over TSCA formerly headed by Mr. Gorton.
However. the Subcommlttee jurlsdlctlons have not yet been settled, and some
rearranglng s posslble. Thus 1: 15 too early to know whether, when and by whom
TSCA reautholzatlon hearlngs Will be held 1n 1993 by the Senate.
OSHA REFORM;
I
TASK snow cnmmuma EFFORTS
A CMA Task Goup contlnues to develop recommendatlons for reform of the
Dccupatlonal Safety and Health Act. Key lssues belng developed 1nclude
deflnltlons. general duty clause, advance notlce of proposed rulemaklng, peri
fomanceﬁaas-d standards, onislte 1nspectlons, selfiregulatlon, employee com?
plalnts, taretlng safety 1nspectlons, contested altatlons, and state plans.
for the 99: Congress are not encouraglng.
I
CMA 039049
STATE AFFAI'S upon
Leglslatlve ctlvlty
Leglslatlve actlvlty durlng the last few months of 1992 was generally
slow Since 05: states had adjourned before the November electlons. However
lame duck 5-sslons contlnued well 1nto December 1n Callfornla, Massachusetts,
New York an Michigan to resolve unflnlshed busmess, partlcularly related
In addltlon, the New Jersey leglslature contlnued to
Jersey Will be the only leglslature to carry mus over 1nto next year.
reorganlzed and beglnnlng the Very busy flrst year of thelr blennlum. Leglsi
of 1993 and will probably peak 1n Aprll.
The Novembe electlons brought much larger shlfts for the Democrats 1n
the states Ihan 1: dld 1n Congress. The Democratlc Party now has complete control of 34 state leglslatures 1n addltlon m 34 governorshlps. Further,
Democrats nw control both the leglslature and the governorshlp 1n 24 states.
The sltuatl-n 1n 1nd1v1dual states 15 as follows:
The Democra-s captured leglslatlve houses from the Republlcans 1n Delaware,
Illinols, Iwa. MalnE, Montana. omo, North Dakota. Pennsylvanla, and Washlngton.
Republlcans will control both chambers 1n Alaska. Arlzona, Colorado. Idaho:
The partles will share control of both chambers 1n Montana, New York,
North Dakot-. and Pennsylvanla.
The Democra-s wrested control of the governor's offlce from the Republlcans
1n the follwlng states: Alaska, Arkansas, Mlchlgan, Mlnnesota, Nebraska, Nevada,
ohm, Texas and Wlsconsln.
The Republlans scored upset gubernatorlal Vistarles 1n Callfornla and N w
Hampshlre.
Commlttee ad Task Group Actlvlty
Major projets by the SASC and 1:5 task groups were geared toward ensurlng
CMA 039049
actlvltles hat are dlstlnct from partlcular lssues or mm: or regulatlons
hazardous m.terlals transportatlon, state cancer pollcles and alr and water
quallty.
In addltlon major corporate, EPA reglonal and state lobbylst
representatves were featured speakers. Although numerous 1deas for unprovlng
the program have developed from these sesslons, these semlnars represented
Another seres of semlnars 15 contemplated 1n late 1933.
The Network Task Group 15 1nvolved 1n several projects deslgned to enhance the
1ndustry's -b111ty m unpact leglslatlve and regulatory actlvltles 1n speclflc
states. Flrt, the CMA State Network formed durlng 1992 15 bemg revlewed and
strengthens to ensure that key 1ndustry lssues. The exlstlng network 15 bemg
surveyed as to how partlclpants utlllzed the materlal dlstrlbuted to them 1n
deslgned :- 1dentlfy chemlcal 1ndustry lobbylng resources 1n key states and to
Vendor for state computer based leglslatlve and regulatory tracklng servlces.
Dlscusslon contlnued through December on 1mplementatlon of the agreement.
STATE Issuns UPDATE
State Righl to Know remalns leglslatlvely actlve 1n Callfornla and New
Jersey.
will go 1n-o effect on February 21, 1933. At the local level, communlty rlght
1n early Dcember. Other localltles that are actlve 1nclude Contra Costa, Santa
Clara. San Dlego and Orange County.
New Jersey remalns the centerplece of the debate 1n the states on rlght to
know. 51; 170. the flrst comblned state level worker and communlty rlght to
know 1n th country, was the subject of extenslve publlc hearlngs around the state
1n October These hearlngs were characterlzed by mghly emotlonal testlmony,
CMA naenan
actlvltles were local envlronmental/cltlzen groups, and, m a lesser extent,
organlzed abor. Although 1: appeared orlglnally that commlttee markup mlght
take place 1n November or December, further actlon has been postponed untll
after the 1rst of the year.
In the 1nt-r1m, the New Jersey Chemlcal Industry
Councll an Chamber of Commerce are worklng jolntly on 1ndustry's response.
In 1933, w expect rlght to know leglslatlon to be 1ntroduced 1n Mlnnesota,
Massachusets. North Carollna. Texas, Oregon, Illlnols, Louisiana, ohm,
The State ffalrs Speclal Commlttee Hazards Communlcatlon Task Group and
the Dccupalonal Safety and Health State Actlvltles Task Group have completed
work on th nght to Know 1nformatlon Packet. Th1: materlal has been dlstrk
buted m ky State Affalrs contacts 1n the states. The packet contalns materlal
communlty 1gb: to know; "and also contalns the rlght to know lssues analysls
booklet prpared earller thls year.
Hazardous Estes
The Hazard-us waste Dlsposal Task Group contlnued m be 1nvolved 1n several
The develoment of a supplement on compensatlon/llablllty lssues
Perspectlv booklet. Th1: 15 deslgned to more fully address
strlct, jont and several liability and causatlon lssues ralsed
Completlon of the flrst stage of the state by state data gatherlng
effort on azardous waste.
Infomatlo has been assembled, by
state, on uperfund unplementatlon, siting and overall hazardous
waste manaement.
mg a mech-nlsm to provlde threat technlcal and legal support to
1ndustry r-presentatlves on state hazardous waste mus and/or
Leglslatlv- actlvlty on hazardous waste durlng the last few months of 1992
was 11mm to only a few states.
The outlo- for state Superfund 1n Massachusetts remalned uncertaln as the
year ends. Although 1ndustry was dlssatlsfled Hlth the King Admlnlstratlon's
CMA 039051
able legllatlon that would emerge 1n 1993 was even worse.
Michigan .nacted HE 4715 1nto law durlng November. Th1: Superfund mm
was by an large acceptable to 1ndustry although the actual source of flnanclng
1n future years 15 5:111 not clear.
tax will ova away from feedstock to some sort of waste and fee.
1: 15 llkly
that the .und Hill remaln a comblned oll/chemlcal splll fund. Actlon 15 not
llkely un-ll 1933.
Industry nroups 1n Tennessee contlnue to work on drafts of State Superfund
and sltln- mm: for conslderatlon 1n 1933.
In Callfonla. the Department of Health Servlces contlnued to push forward
1:: propo-ed regulatlons to 11m: the landfllllng of certaln categorles of
hazardous waste. The current regulatlons represent a marked unprovement over
the Execulve order orlglnally put forward by Governor Brown 1n 1931.
Alr and W.ter Quallty
A prlorlt for the State Affalrs Speclal Commlttee Envlronmental Task Group
for 1993 s the development of a pollcy paper on state regulatlon of hazardous
air polluants. The task group has begun prellmlnary work on the concepts
1nvolved .nd Will work mm the approprlate EMC groups to reach an acceptable
posltlon. Th1: actlvlty has been spurred on by the Callfornla Alr Resources
1932. The Callfornla leglslature unanlmously passed a resolutlon urging them
The task roup Will also be worklng mm the EMC Groundwater Task Group
1933.
Flnally, he task group will be monltorlng cancer and other chronlc
dlsease lsues 1n the states and Will work to ensure that the 1ndustry's
technlcal expertlse 15 made avaliable where approprlate.
Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon
CMA staff and member company representatlves partlclpated 1n a hazardous
materlals transportatlon conference 1n Denver sponsored by the Natlonal Conference
of State eglslatures. Th1: conference was part of the contlnulng dlalogue on
the approrlate roles of Federal, State and local governments 1n regulatlng the
transport-tlon of hazardous materlals.
1
CMA mans
Pennsylv.1a ms 50 has been reported out of conference commlttee
mm the interqndustry Coalltlon on advocatlng a consensus Good Samarltan mu
1n 1933.
Progress has been good and we antlclpate a coordlnated, broad based
effort :- pass thls leglslatlon to take place 1n many states next year. To
support nus effort, the Hazardous Materlals Transportatlon Task Group 15
worklng 1th the Dlstrlbutlon Commlttee on developlng Good Samarltan advocacy
materlal- for dlstrlbutlon to our state contacts.
Flnally, the proposed Alabama regulatlon requlrlng prenotlflcatlon of
shlpment- of hazardous waste has been ellmlnated.
CMA
CMA 03903
EXHIBIT :
upon 0- THE ummmn 0F COMMUNICATIONS
RICHARD .
WILSON
Introduc-lon 7 At the Board Meetlng 1n Chlcago 1n October,
a deflnllve cm communlcatlons plan was presented.
That
plan 15 ow 1n operatlon.
tea 1: wnrklng mm the Leglslatlve Communlcatlons Task Group
of the Givernment Relatlons Commlttee to develop a Communica*
tlons pr-gram for the local level.
Among mu prlmary goals
15 devel-pment of methods for creatlng a structure that will
publlc olnlon 1n key congresslonal dlstrlcts.
Inltlal fforts
have alrady begun to 1dentlfy lssues, develop messages and
explore ellvery approaches.
Publlc C-mpensatlon 7 Th1: major concern looms 1n the recently
convened 98th sesslon of Congress.
Because t 15 so emoi
tlonally charged, thls lssue has the potentlal to drlve the
publlc's perceptlon of the 1ndustry to new depths,
A prelk
mlnary ..11c compensatlon communlcatlons plan 15 already 1n
place.
Econom Brleflng 7 Board Chalrman Willlam G. Slmeral
appears at cum: annual economlc press brleflng, held 1n New
Reports: were told
that th- economlc health of the 1ndustry remalns poor and that
prospecs for a rapid recovery are dim.
When th upturn does
come. M. Slmeral predlcted that the 1ndustry Will be 1n good
posltlo to take advantage of 1: through unproved productlvlty
Advertl-lng 7 The prlnt advertlslng budget for the 1992793
flscal ear was reduced from $2.2 million to $900,000 reflect?
mg 1ndstry's economlc dlfflcultles.
In llne mm other CMA
lssues, such as publlc compensatlon, Superfund reauthorlzatlon,
The Advrtlslng Task Group will work 1n tandem Hlth the new
Governmnt Affalrs Task Group toward developlng reglonal
CMA 03954
2
J
publlc elatlons programmlng supported by local advertlslng.
sought to persuade readers to support a partlcular posltlon
and to send that message m thelr congressman.
J. Waller
Thompsn 15 worklng on thls program mm cm and 1:5 outslde
publlc relatlons counsel.
:'I
1
1
m wor mm Catalyst Award
wlnner 1n developmg prlnt materlals' that emphaslze the post
tlve apects of sclence.
A p119 program usmg a top Catalyst
reclplnt as a speaker on a medla tour 15 planned for January
1933.
Anothe posslbllty 15 that radlo 1ntervlews usmg educators will be sent to statlons already requestlng our materlals
In addtlon, cm plans to publlsh
a care-r 1nformatlon booklet usmg advlsory essays from these
educat-rs.
J
and cltlcal lssues.
At :n- Natlonal Assoclatlon of Farm Broadcasters conventlon 1n
Kansa- Clty 1n November, CMA provlded ten 1ndustry representai
tives to be taped for 1ntervlews.
Elght flveﬂnlnute TV and 209
radlo tapes were made by 45 broadcasters Hlth an estlmated
Total air tune amounted to
1
1
1
agrlultural toplcs were announced at the conventlon.
Flrsn
respctlvely, to donate to the noniproflt organlzatlon of thelr
chole.
1
1
1
c
Pubic Servlce Announcements 7 The department will produce four
3Dis-cond PSAS for televlslon durlng the next few months.
They
Hll reflect actlons that the 1ndustry 15 taklng 1n the publlc
1ntrest on major lssues.
9
and provlde an outlook on congresslonal actlon to come.
remanded to the lelngston, La., traln derallment.
In conjunctlon mm the technlcal department, thls sectlon 15
cordlnatlng productlon of a primer on ground water.
1: Will be
aV-llable early 1n 1933, prlmarlly to 5111 requests for 1nformai
tl-n generated by medla tours.
c
1
1
A
A naenaa
