EXHIBIT D Report of Education Atlvltles Committee m November 20, 1972 By Henry we Rahn, Chalrman is 15 three years Since the EAC Committee last reported directly m this Board. In the 1nte1m, several Significant developments have occurred affecting the area whereln the Committee functions 7 namely, the 1ndustrlaliacadem1c interface. These include: £15: 7 employment opportunities for new technical graduates in the chemical industry shank to low levels; seeond 7 a wave of technical staff reductions by job temlnatlon ran through the industry in 19TH and 1971; and third 7 society's attitude toward our ndustry underwent deterioration m where we now labor under the burden of a negative ubllc image. is 15 most appropriate, therefore, and I welcome this opi portunlty to review for you the Committee's objectives, plans and actlvltles, structured to meet our assignment and responslbillcy m the MCA under conditions so changed from the past. COMMITTEE EDLUTIDN The ComPlete was first established in the mm 50': when. as you Will recall, there was a short.ge of graduate chemists. The initial objective was to encourage students 1 pursue a areer in chemistry, so as to assure an adequate supply of chemists for the xpandlng had: of our industry. graduate suplyidemand studies lad several of our members to predict that the high post World War I birth rates would result in an oversupply of chemists in the early 70's. The chemical 1nustry beginning in 1959, and the layoffs of employed chemists and chemical years of an; or less were unemployed. Faced mm these unsettling aspects in the job market. the Committee decided to modify 1:5 objectives. Instead of stressing recrultment, we began to focus on the quality and type of training suitable for chemists golng into industry. CMA 035213 In looking -head, we are confronted mm a mghly confused picture concerning the power. Majo longirange studies reaching into the 1980's by such prestigious groups as the National Science Foundatlbn. Sclentlflc Manpower Commlsslon, Engineering Labor reach Varying forecasts, ranging from prediction of years of oversupply m Fire warnings of impending shortages. Perhaps mu is to be expected as the nation grapples mm the problem of changing priorities -nd shifting actlvltles. And in View of this, is would appear that the use of historical rend data for predicting technical manpower supplies ten years from now forces some degree of uncertalnty into the forecasts. But the welght of the evidence seems to he on the tHe of an impending shortage. The shortirange forecasts, on the other hand, as mode by 1mllarly competent groups, are considered m be much more reliable. We can dlscus these figures with more confidence. In general, such studies predict He proportion could develop in the supply of sclentlflc and engineering graduates. AS responsible members of the chemical industry, I believe there 15 cause for us to be 7 concerns over both the short and long range Situation. I Will not burden you mm a complete s-atlstlcal analysis that supports this conclusion, but here are some Significant details. First, und-rgraduate enrollments for majors in chemistry have historically increased modestly e.gh year. In 1970, however, the number of ft” So degrees awarded in chemistry ecllned for the first time in 20 years. We conclude that a high "drop out" rate betwe-n entry and graduation for chemistry majors has taken place. Second, th- number of first year graduate students in him. chemistry programs has declined 2-a Since 1955. Statistics for each year indicate an increased number of fields. Third, undrgraduate enrollments and earned degrees in engineering are declining Slgnlflcanly. From the total engineering bachelor supply of 43,000 graduating in 1971, the mutput in 1975 is expected to fall to 31,000. degrees. tare are some that claim that even larger decreases in the employed technical worlcforce may be necessary, as an adjustment to changing R L n prlorltles. If this ha? comes nee sary, I susp at w will 61nd the students moving ever farther away from the chemical 1dustry, a developm It we would all like to avold 15 possible. CMA 035214 The chemical industry, as you well know, 15 an industry of great complexity, requiring any high level 1ntellects to effectively develop, manage and operate will depen largely on the prestige of the occupatlon, working conditions and personal engineers, we make the prediction this number will remaln a reasonably stable percentage 5 the tots industrial workforce. At the risk of overslmpllflcatlon, we have reached this conclusion by assuming two important opposing demand trends will tend to balance each other. The downward trend involved AnD. During the past 25 years, hAS: actlvltles accounted or a large fraction of total technical employment. mm this fraction tending to become mailer, as ReD 15 daiemphaslzed, one can logically reason future needs for and the Amending energy crisis, which heretofore have not been factors of any Slgmsk canes as uers or chemically tralned personnel, could possibly impose heavy future dE* sequently, we believe continued reductions in chemistry and engineering majors and earned degees will likely leadto shortages of technical graduate manpower resources. In View of the uncertalnty surrounding future needs, is 15 temptlng to adopt 3 "Walt and . Further. is will likely intensify the negative lmage many students and young faculty, specially n nonisclence areas, have for the chemical and other technlcallyiorlented in four 0 elght years are, in fact, today's problems because the new chemists and engineers ' He Will Ilre then are in the educational pipeline now. RESTORATII OF coupmmm m muusmy in our 1nustry, the question then arises as to what steps we can take to restore it. We positive ay. In conjunction mm the Public Relations Committee, we are organizing an effort to define a program for your consideration. Meanwhlle, I urge you to give, mm important continuing influence on the educational system and on national manpower planning .ommssmns. OBJECTIVE 7 PLANS 7 ACTIVITIES 7 Accommsamms according t the greatly altered mployment and economic eondltl n5 confr nting member companies Our objective became: "To promote through the educational system public unerstandlng of the chemical industry; to 35515: in career guldance; to enhance the quality of education in chemistry, chemical engineering and 1nterd15c1pllnary in 3 broa- intellectual, cultural and social context at all levels of education." We thus reaflmed our primary mission to collaborate with educators and educational systems. ur actlvltles were then reorganized and channeled into three categories, all judge to be of unportance in attaining our objectives. These are: 0 I 1 chemical ducation public unerstandlng of the chemical industry Each area of concern is assigned m a separate mlbcommlttee. Concerning thelr work, Th1: grou 61nd: itself in the paradoxlcal Situation of motivating students toward chemistry at a time when tralned scientists are unemployed. Th1: contrasts mm a past period of more than two decades when expansion and growth of the industry assured multiple job student m.de a career decision remalned essentially unchanged 4 or a or 10 years later objective for specific positions could be described succinctly in terms of course requlre* ments and skills. Career guldance was then a Very legitimate facet of recrultment in advance, hen there are concrete job openlngs. Only recently have some associations, Some few ears ago the Career Guldance Subcommittee began to redlrect 1:5 efforts to 15 a contnulng need for people mm a chemical background but, as you know, the ap* pllcatlon of thelr education and training might not confom to the traditional and academic mags of the charms: or chemical engineers The subcommittee encourages those mY particular ability and interest in chemistry to a career in R L Of However, for most n industry, the translation of theoretlcal 1nfomatlon into practical realities lations -flnes ...where the action 15." Consequently, an education should be directed skills oF the student. Several xperlmental career booklets were developed to present the new approach to more tha 4,500 educators. students and administrators who requested Copies. A new edition iS the booklet Will be distributed early next year, incorporating many helpful suggests n5 recelved from teachers and students. and studIes. During the 197171972 fiscal year, for example, we filled requests for more than 30,000 career booklets and 10,000 Payers. is 15 preferable, as you Will agre, to be ahead of change rather than unwittlng Victims of it. Th1: subommlttee also 55515:: and encourages the increased number of those who elect chmlstry as a cultural background or as a foundation for careers in fields such as edlclne, law and marketing which have competing claims on technlcallytralned men and women. CHEMICAL EDUCATION smacomamm success nd acceptance among academic chemists during the past two years, members collabor.ted. by 1nv1tatlon, mm the National Science Foundation in the preliminary planning and implementation of a new educational program in which industry and the academe 111 jointly study the process of innovation and of expedltlng the process by which ne ideas are transferred into currlcula or marketable products. The work of this subcommittee 15 now focused in three areas: College -nd High School Teacher Awards Influence on Currlcula Interfac- Conferences ' College Awards; Since 1957, MCA has honored 75 outstanding professors of chemistry and chemcal engineering. As one of the foremost national awards on the college level in the U.S. and Canada, the program has attalned prestige and 15 considered by many r cent r-clplents as the pinnacle of thelr reaching careers. In 1972, the 51x medallsts were featured in 3 cover study in Chemical and Engineering News an a cover headline in the Journal of Chemical Education. a first for MCA in each of these magazines. In 1972, we recelved more than 430 inquiries and processed 192 VEIN In the as: two years we conferred Elva college awards on the campus of the recipient. s Veral of you represented MCA at these ceremonles and contributed m this new dlmensl-n of 1ndustryieducatlon contact. AS a result of these campus ceremonles, several major 1nst1tutlons raievaluated thelr programs honoring excellence among thelr faculty, another plans to 1n1tlate an honors convocatlon and another broke an old tradltln and gave public notice of the award at commencement. CMA 03517 a teacher mm local awards of 52m. The program, administered by Chemical Industry CouncilS was restricted to teachers Hlthln the locale of the council. In 1973, He Will open the program, making any teacher in the U.S. and Canada eligible for a regloal award of Can or for the new national award of $1,000. The expanded program has aroused an enthusiastic response. To date, we have processed 55 requests for 1nf-Imatlon and nomination toms. on the ign school and lower college levels. When we first made the suggestion, our message went unneeded among educators who 1ntenslfled the theoretlcal content of chemicl education conferences and educators concur mm our proposal. We collaborate theory. In 1957 the first title in 3 10 book. Mczvsponsored "Chemlstry in Action Serles" was published by Doubleday. The books related practical stories and personal accounts of been said m enrlch high school and lower level college chemistry courses. Elght of these ties appear in forelgn language editions similar m this Japanese Version of Water 5 Everybody's Business, and one title in 3 U.S. Infomatlon Service edition in Ind 13. the ftooks beportment of the Amerlcan Chemical Society now published the series. We cooperate in enlisting authors and assisting in the preparation of manuscrlpts . Since 951, Holt. Rlnehard and Wlnston published four MCAisponsored innovative labora-ory manuals for elementary and secondary schools. More than 155,000 Copies have ben sold. MCA is widely known and esteemed for this service. We Will request modest funding to update one of these manuals in the next fiscal year. commltee, summarized and submitted our recommendations. In the past 51x months, the Chln’nan of the ACS committee acknowledged our contributions before more than 300 Chalmn of college chemistry departments and, on another occasion, before more than 450 educators. Interf.ce Conferences; We 1n1tlated experimental and innovative conferences of predlc an increasing need for this type of dlalog. Members of the subcommittee share thelr -xp rGency mm member companies who have organized similar sessions. CMA 03.219 in 7 FUEL]: vmgnsmmms 017 THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY suscommmrm gr at.r public understanding of the chemical industry through the educational system. Thelr efforts are directed primarily to the nonisclence student and faculty who harbor a negative attitude toward :echmcallymnented industry. Many of these apostles, m be surE, have the nalvete of youth but share mm us in industry a ilLness of concern 5 r sAFety. Thelr zeal and energies seek direction toward constructive as well as mm hem through interface seminars indicates that they have done thelr homework well but oten lack an overHaul and balanced View of a particular problems They are un* they .re open and willing to learn and change thelr attitudes. The sbcommlttee coordinates 1:5 efforts with Mrs. Walton's Consumer Infomatlon Subcomlttee. We make suitable education materials available to Mrs. Walton's throuh our education channels. on three occasions we combined the Consumer Inf mation and Education exhibits to stretch our exmm: dollars and to reach new audiences c stance and nonisclence oriented publics. At the suggestion of the Consumer Infomatlon group we published a manual of Simple chemical demonstrations suitable for the general Quell and have another manual of simple food experiments in the rough manuscript Stags. MCA'S education exhibit provides us the opportunity to present all our programs and boot at one regional and three national education conferences. Th1: year we have scheuled 51x exhibits in all sections of the U.S. and seek similar contacts with Canalan educators. The Ho subcommittees also coordinated thelr efforts in presenting the seminar atted this morning. The mpact of electronic media on this generation indicates that the printed word 15 no longer the only effective avenue of communication. An experimental tape for ampus radio, classroom or private listening was produced. mm Clips, slide pro-se to you for future budget allocatlons. Relations Committee to study the negative lmage of industry among youth and make recommendations on what industry can do to stem the side of unfalr Crltlclsm which, as you know, often creates the unfavorable climate for adverse and restrictive legislation. Our work, like public relations, 15 never ending. There 15 no such thing as a stable or mun never stands 5:111 and n Ver is qulte the same at any one polnt of reference. CMA 035219 Th1 about brings ma to the and of my report. Bef-re closmg, I would like to thank you, the member companies who are represented on he Committee and the staff of the MCA, for the strong support given the ma. Th- Committee membership 15 listed in the new MCA directors. The 1nd1v1duals named an the MCA staff form a team of highly motivated, dedicated, competent professionals of Varied dlsclpllnes giving great breadth of experience to our work. From a purely I this brief report, I have listed only the highlights of our problems, accomplishments ad future plans. I am sure that you have many other questions related to our work. I I thank you.
