xansm u 5 REPORT by William Of Driver ...involving portions of t orelgn Trade and Investment Act of that the AFL’CID planned to attempt cing Titles v1 and VII of that proposed Act to the Admlnlstratlon's d legislation. has been given jurlsdlctlon over Titles v1 and VII of t *called The latter committee scheduled gold mu hearings March 175 a unmedlately afterward, is expected to begin executive session mar Rapid enactment 15 anticipated. Organized Labor's position, m be presented the last day of heari ings, 15 that dollar devaluatlon in itself does not provide adequate remedies and that the stronger measures embodied in the Hartke43urke mm are needed. Title VI of that measure would empower the President m prohibit: Any transactlons involving threat or indirect transfer of capital m or Within any forelgn country when, in his judgment, the transfer would result in 3 net dE* crease in LAw So employment, and Any holder of a Up so patent from manufacturing the patented product, usmg the patented process, llcen5* mg others to manufacture the patented product or usmg the patented process outside United States terrltory when, in the President's judgment, such prohibition will contribute to increased employment in the United States . Title v11 would requlre onerous reporting provisions including complete statistics on working conditions in multinational com? panies outside the United States as well as or) products and thelr dlstrlbutlon. is also imposes burdensome requlrements for labeling and advertising. After key House committee members were alerted to organized Labor's strategy, assurances were obtalned that the gold legislation would be kept free of encumberlng amendments and that the Hartke43urke measures would be ruled nonigemane. on March is the Senate approved the gold legislation requlred by the President to implement negotiated international monetary agree* ments . cm 012524A 2 THE SENATE suscommrm on THE ENVIRONMENT... ...has begun executive session consideration of pending toxic substances legislation. on February 11, the Subcommittee staff made public Working Draft No. in We were invited to submit for con* sideration a memorandum dealing mm Section 24 of that document. is was prepared by our General Counsel and submitted on February 15. Additional changes and luvprovements were recommended in more com? prehenslve comments on February 25 in 3 letter to the Acting Subcomi mittee Chalman, Senator William Be Spong m.wa.y. We emphasized our concern over certaln provisions relative m premarket testing of chemical substances and polnted out other needed improvements. THE HOUSE PUBLIC wows COMMITTEE STAFF... ...has 1n515ted for some time that the language of the pending Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments, Of Rul 1396, would would be made public on March in However, present indications are is Will not be released until mm or late March. The Committee's formal report is expected about the same tune. Consideration by the House Rules Committee Will take place prior to House floor action. The measure could reach Senate*ﬂouse conference before Easter. ...has approved legislation that would requlre the Equal Employ? men: Opportunity Commission 13mm to seek court enforcement of 1:5 findings of job discrimination. Prompt approval by both houses and President leon is expected. The Senate Version of the measure generally prevailed, broaden? mg EEDC‘S purview to government and educational employees as well as reducing from 25 m 15 the number of workers in 3 company or union coming under is: jurlsdlctlon. A CoNsUMER PROTECTION AGENCY BILL... ...which passed the House last October, 15 currently under coni sideration in the Senate Government Operations Subcommittee on Exes? ative Reorganlzatlon. Th1: b111, so 11TH, would establish an independent Consumer Prof tection Agency authorized m intervene on behalf of consumers in any Federal agency where busmess regulation generally 15 at issue. In addition. the new agency could seek judicial review of any dE* cision by a Federal agency that 15 considered to be contrary to the interests of consumers. cm 035191 T 3 We have burdensome make known Government alerted MCA legislative contacts to the disruptive and effects of this measure. suggesting that affected companies thelr opposumnﬂparmcularly to members of the Senate Operations Committee. The Executive Operations Subcommittee is expected to begin marking up this mu Within the next three or four weeks. ownsmm HEARINGS . . . ...on luvplementatlon of the Clean Alr Act Amendments of 1970 were held recently 77 on January 25729 by Representative Paul Go Rogers m.fFlaJ, of the House Committee on Interstate and Forelgn Commerce and on February 1519, 23725 by Senator Thomas Of Eagleton (D.*MD.7, of the Senate Committee on Public Works. Particular concern was expressed by Democratic members of the Congress that the Office of Management and Budget (mm was interi coding in Environmental Protection Agency 13pm affalrs, contrary to the intent of the Congress. Persistently attacked was EPA'S delay in 155mm; state "Requlrements for Preparation, Adoption, and Submittal of Implementation Plans." EPA'S Administrator. Mr. Ruckelshaus. had delayed thelr publication in order to revise them. He deleted 1mpllcatlons that approval of state plans would depend on inclusion of specified regulatory provisions and clearly identified them as possible state options, thus allowing for alter? Lative control strategies. Democrats and environmentalists alleged this change was the result of political pressures applied through ms. However. Mr. Ruckelshaus defended the legal and technological soundness of ms actions. AS INDICATED IN THE FEBRUARY REPORT... ...written testimony developed by our International Trade Committee has been presented to the Senate Subcommittee on Forelgn Commerce and Tourlsm in connection with thelr hearings on so 2754, the Export Expansion Act of 1971. By letter on February 29 to the Committee's Chalrman, Senator DanGer Of Inouye minim we relterated our position on: Upgrading commercial attaches, etmg industry advisors during trade negotiations, Strengthening Exportilmport Bank operations. Easing restralnts on bank export financing. Ending freight rate dlsparltles, Permitting more actlvltles in forelgn trade zones. Easing access to drawback opportunities, Ending forelgn threat investment controls, and on Qualifying all export earnings for ursc operations. CMAD3619 4 Two specific recommendations were to: 17 RequlrE, by law, government use of busmess advisors in international trade negotiations. 27 Subsldlze directly, rather than indirectly, operation of the Up So Merchant Marine as a means of ending freight rate disparities. ...were the topic at a meeting on February 24 at MCA Headquarters. Discussion centered on reported findings of medical researchers coni cerning phthalate extraction by blood when stored in bags made of phthalatejolastlclzed polyvinyl chloride £11m, and Observances of birth defects in rats when REjected mm types of phthalate esters used as plasticizers in plastics, particularly polyvinyl chloride. Fortyiflve representatives of 31 companies attended. They wish to consider the development of a technical program, and eight com? panies volunteered representatives as an Ad Hoc Planning Group on Phthalate Studies, with the understanding that any program proposal of involving MCA admlnlstratlon would requlre your approval. THE ASSOCIATION... ...has extended is: agreement mm The Unlverslty of Michigan to malntaln a registry of cases of acroosteolysls (flngertlp bone lesmnsy and to provide a consultation center for industry. 1 Funded by contributions from 19 polyvinyl chloride manufacturers, the extension continues a program which began with an extensive mi Vestlgatlon of the clinical, epldemlologlcal, and industrial hygiene aspects of this syndrome among polyvinyl chloride production workers. ...as a pollutlonipreventlon measure, has proposed regulations concerning the design and construction of Vessels and the operation of temlnal facllltles in oil transfer operations. In general, member companies have no objection m the proposal. However. Since we believe some modlflcatlon 15 necessary to provide for appropriate review, preserve unlfomlty with present regulations and clarify intent of some of the proposals, our comments were sub? mitted m the Coast Guard on February 15. THE INTERSTATE comma coMMIssIoN... cm 035193 ...scheduled a modified procedure in response to our complaint concerning deflclencles in the tank car mileage allowance system adopted by railroads, requesting written comment by February 22. However. that date did not allow us sufficient tune and our request for a Bniday extension was granted. We may ultimately request oral argument 15 the modified procedure appears inadequate m 35* sure a complete record. T 5 ”.15 the title of the Association's newest publication; first lssue this month. is replaces CURRENTS/PILDT which combined those publications last December. Issued monthly, ChemEcology 15 edited by James Pa Turner. Manager of Environmental Quality Infomatlon, and 15 mailed ﬁresioficharge to some 9000 internal/externa 1 readers. EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES... ...by the Association are increasing. include: Recent and future projects "An Investment In People" W a 24*page booklet describing MCA educational projects and materials. The initial dlstrlbutlon of over 20,000 drew excellent educator response. Two new booklets are upcoming. A career guldance booklet, lA Challenge For Growth," will replace "Careers Ahead In The Chemical Industry." And, "What Is Chemical Change" 15 currently bemg d15* tributed in experimental form prior to publication. Authored by Elbert co Weaver. is presents lecture demonstrations for elementary schools. The Association's combined Educatloniconsumer Information Exhibit ellclted substantial interest and discussion at the Annual Conveni tion of the Amerlcan Association of School Administrators in Atlantlc Uity, February 1215. The same exhibit will be on dlsplay March 579 in Phlladelphla at the Annual Convention of The Association for Supervision and Currlculum Development and at the Annual Convention of the National Science Teachers' Association in New York Uity, ApplY Two symposia, in recognition of the MCA Centennlal, Will be €07 sponsored by the Association and the Amerlcan Chemical Society on ApplY 10 and 12 during the latter's Annual Convention in Boston. one, under the Dlvlslon of Chemical EducatiOn, Inc, will feature a discussion on continuing education. The other, under the Dlvlslon of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, Will be devoted to "Indus* trlaliAcademlc Cooperation in the Seventles." on ApplY 13, the day before a scheduled Education Actlvltles Committee CmA meeting, EAC members will participate in an Interi face Conference mm the EXISt group of students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “(Efficient Communication through Interpersonal Semlnars.) cMADBall Finally, the me, through MCA'S Manager of Education, Dr. Robert Be Varnerln. 15 collaborating mm the National Science Foundation (NSF7 in proposing an Experimental Research and Development Inceni tives Program for NSF funding. If approved by the Congress, the program will promote the exchange of personnel between industry and schools on a sabbatlcal or 1nternsh1p basis and provide R 4 u funds for nonidefense research in industry. A budget of $22 million has been proposed.
