exhibit tO STAFF REPRT January 1‘73 by William J Driver TAX REFORM...hear1ngs before the House Ways and mittee ar likely m begin early in the next session As long so as last June, that Committee's Chalman, orlty. Means Com of Congres. Wllbur one pay Less certain 15 the nature and scope of such hearings. sweeping efoms. The Admlnstratlon is expected to introduce is: tax reform proposal aBly in order to take the initiative. Comments by Various Teasury Department officials indicate the Admmsmr tion wi11 emphasize tax Simplification rather than substantive reform. Treasury nder Secretary Edwln So Cohen stated recently that he specter! Congress to take under consideration the Asset the mm tax on tax preference income. is 15 als- expected Congressional consideration of trade reform legislation ahead of and Mean Committee. Mr. M1115 15 reported to have indicated that he ould put trade legislation before tax resom is President leon sh-uld request it. We understand, however, that the Preslden has not yet made a decision on elther the nature of trade lelslatlon m be proposed by the Admlnlstratlon, or on under ne leadership. dutles. reasury Secretary Shultz wi11 take charge of overall economic policy. restore he Department of State to some emlnence in trade policy matters. No Chang: have been indicated so far in the Office of the Special rade Representatives However. the President has accepted r slgnatlons from a number of International Economic Policy Council staff memb rs, presently headed by Peter Flanlgan. :sz D3626 Staff Reort January 973 Page 2 9 MCA and -ther 1ntervenors with the Interstate Commerce Commission Resist udatlng of base classlflcatlon Values (BCV'57 , attackeD the basic system and claiming that a single percentae trendlng factor 15 inappropriate, Crltlclz-d our proposal to ralse the Value ceiling to 54n,nnn, contending that linings and special materials relate to the "package" function of a tank car, and Continue legal objections m Icc's power to prescribe special allowances. Therefole, m permit adequat evaluation and response, additional time to comment was requestd in our behalf and that of the Amerlcan Petroleum Institute, car 11mm; companies and other supporters. Four weeks w-re granted; reply statements are now due January oF 1973. and ﬂea th, 15 conducting a National Occupational Hazard Survey a statl-tlcal study designed to collect pertinent information trial wmrkers. Accompanied by management representatives, NIDSH exposurs to trade name compounds. However the Institute's ultlmat goal is to develop 1nfomatlon on exposures to specific lngredlnt 1nfomatlon for each trade name ltem reported to them. To obtan this 1nfomatlon they propose to send a letter and a "equest com" (one for each trade name product) to about Respons- would be mandatory. There 1 obvious concern that trade secret 1nfomatlon might 1-31: from the NIDSH files. Views egardlng the need for assurances of confldentlallty beyond those already expressed in the Occupational Safety and Health Act. 1 cm n3.24a Staff 'eport Januar 1973 Page 3 THE ASDCIATIDN...part1c1pated in 3 recent meeting in Geneva of the United National Committee of Experts on the Trans port 0 Dangerous Goods. Dr. co Boyd Shaffer, Director of Toxlcclogy. Amerlcan Cyanamld Action taken at this meeting wi11 result in publication the al.55161catlon. packaging and labeling of hazardous materials in international trade. t THE ASDCIATIDN...has offered recommendations m the Environmental Protection Agency (mm on the professional quallucatlons deemed necessary to membership on us Effluent Standards and Water Quality Infomatlon Advisory Committee. We al-o offered to suggest candidates suiting these qualifier tions . in th development of effluent guidelines for the categories of Office for thelr interim use in drafting discharge permits for consutants who wi11 recommend a basis for establishing Best Practcable Control Technology Currently Available, Best Axial]: able Iechnology Economically Achlevable, and National Standards is 15 anticipated that 1nd1v1dual plants judged to be "exemplary" wi11 provide the base for the requlred levels of technological performance. am 35247 5:36 Report Janu.ry 1973 Page 4 THE ATER “swans commrmg...nas established eight task grous to deal with particular aspects of regulations under the 1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. 117 roposed regulations relating to State discharge permit dra- document relating m pretreatment standards for discharges A SILID WASTES MANAGEMENT CDMMITTEE...task group and other 1ntrested company representatives are reviewing an EPA draft mY that agency in the development of ensulng Federal regulai ma. HERMAN so BLDCH...Assoclate Amrlcan Chemical Society's Board of up BlocK has been one of the prune catalysts for MCA/ACS collaboration in such EAC projects as the "Chemlstry In Action" -r1e5, OpeniEnded Experlments, Awards and Interface Conferences. Be served as EAC Chalman from 19591971. A 03624:!
