EXHIBIT B mmmcmnms CHEMISTS ASSOCIATION 1925 commencm AVENUE. No we WASHINGTON. up cO 20009 12027 49375125 May as 1973 MCA Board of Directors From: Special Committee: Edward Re KanE, Chalrman Of Harold Sible George we Russell FINAL upon The objective of this committee, formed at the FebruaryiExecutlve Committee meeting, was to study how to make MCA more effective, with particular reference to, but not limited to, Washlngton and government relations. A preliminary report was made to the Executive Committee and m the Board in March. and several suggestions were approved. The committee feels that this report represents only a first step towards strengthening MCA and that the effectiveness of MCA ought to be reviewed annually by the Executive Committee and the Board. Discussions with a cross section of Board members, MCA staff, and member company personnel serving on MCA committees and on the Washlngton scene polnted m a central need and opportunity m unprove communications. The committee believes MCA'S communications can be improved in 3 number of areas by ellmlnatlng layerlng, sharpening objerk tives, focusing efforts on key groups, and coordinating the actlvltles of Various parts of the Association. Therefore. the following steps are recommended to strengthen MCA'S communlcatlons:l in The agenda for Board meetings should be revamped to include additional reports from chalmen of technical and functional committees, a regular review of legislative activity by the Director of Government Raf latlons. and periodic reports from other MCA staff members, as set forth in the recommended agenda attached as Exhibit As The four Board Liaison Committees should be eliminated. Also, the scene should be set in 3 way CMA 035303 that will permit polnted questioning regarding, and critical discussion of, MCA affalrs. Of At least two more Board meetings should be held each year in Washlngton to focus attention on governmental matters and to facilitate con* tact: mm government personnel. A recommended schedule of Board meeti ings for 1973774 15 attached as Exhibit Be Of Closer communication between Executive Contacts, especially those who are MCA Board members, and personnel from thelr companies who serve on technical and functional committees 15 Very much in order and needs to be encouraged. Of The Executive CommittEE, in confomlty mm suggested changes in Board procedures and in addition to is: present actlvltles, should make an annual review of MEAl a effectiveness, including the work of, as well as the need for, the Various committees. Any action which would have a Significant financial unpact should be decided upon prior to January, when development of the budget begins. The Executive Committee should also formulate a 115: of the most critical lssues facing the industry and indicate those lssues for which MCA positions should be developed. A letter should be sent from the Chalrman of the Board to all Executive Contacts following the June 1973 Greenbrler meeting outlining the newly adopted approaches and procedures for the 1973774 MCA year, and sollcltlng thelr active interest and partlclpatlon. Board Meetings The agenda for Board meetings Will be prepared by the President, following consultation as appropriate mm the Chalman of the Board and sent to the Directors well in advance of meetings. Routine busmess of the Association should be dealt mm briefly on the assumption that Directors had read the material which was supplied prior to the meeting. DE considerable unportance 15 the arrangement of the agenda in such a way that there can be appropriate questioning and discussion regarding important MCA matters. At some past meetings, several Board members have felt the opportunity for meaningful discussion was limited or precluded. Providing for frank deliberation will permit a filleD contribution from the Board and will recognize the considerable investment of time by Board mem* bers. However. this increased partlclpatlon by the Board in MCA affalrs should not be permitted to dlmlnlsh the role and the effectiveness of the Ex* ecutlve Committee. The President would present first an overview of MCA'S Situation, providing perspective and priorities with regard to unportant lssues, opi portunltles. and problems. CMA 035304 Th1: would be'followed by a brief legislative report from the Director of Government Relations plus reports from any other members of the MCA staff who have an unportant matter to bring m the Board's attention. Next. three or four chalrmen of technical or functional com? mittees would report on substantive matters pending in those committees. Routine organizational matters and accomplishments should be excluded. The four Board Liaison Committees have helped a great deal, but there 15 a prevailing opinion that the growing complexity and unportance of th lssues the industry 15 facing requlre the active and threat involvement of the Board. and that to shorten communications lines the liaison Comes tees should be dlssolved. Onsithlrd of the 24 MCA committees currently have chalrmen from companies which are not represented on the Board. When one 0 these chalrmen reports to the Board, the Executive Contact from 5 com? pany should be invited to attend the meeting. The above format would nomany take two hours, and this tune should be regularly allotted in planning schedules. Two more Washlngton Board meetings (January and October) would improve communications considerably. Such meetings uld also help focus Board attention on the critical matters in th governmental Forum luncheon: would be tied in the next day. Good 366 work and cook dOnated efforts are called for here to see that MCA interests are effectively conveyed to the government. mm regard to regional Board meetings, the Frog CommitS industry interests, especially governmental tlvltles. Government Relations Activity more fomallzed procedures. In the past, MCA has been stemmed at does by an inability to take and by a cumbersome clearance procedure. In the future, commitS CMA 035305 Exhibit A Recommended Agenda for m card Meetings Approval of Minutes of evlous Meeting. 111. Approval ofReport of ecretaryiTreasurer. Forwarded in advanc of the meeting; no summary requlred. MCA Busmess Items Brief discussion; material forwarded in advance. An overview of CA actlvltles and major lssues facing and advance otlce 15 provided on the need for develop* Report om Director of Government Relations. v11. journment. A 035305
