423 la dltlonal Capital Assets. The Va 5 furnlture and equlpment Ha ot reflected in the audltors' Statement of Assets, Liabilities, and Fund Balances cause acqulsltlons of these ltems are charged to ex* depreclated value of these at: on hand as of May* 31, 1973, was $51, 759. 94. An inventory by the staff of m bllcatlons held for sale as of value of publications was not shown in th dltors' Statement of Assets, expense when printed. III. BOARD 017 ummmns. 1015: Annual Meeting. 117 Program Arrangements and Registration. Mr. Brown sumarlzed plans for the special reception belng given by the Directors for the Executive Contacts of member companies on the following evemng, pomp mg out that is: purpose was to bring about closer communication between the Board of Directors and member company executive contacts in keeping with 1 the emphasis on better communication throughout the Association contalned in the Kane Committee Report; Directors were urged to make maximum umur tion of the reception for this puzpose. Mr. Carnes reported that advance registration for the Annual Meeting totaled gun to be accommodated in The Greenbrler mm 11 others in local motels. 154 member companies belng represented. (27 Future Annual Meeting Dates. The SecretaryiTreasurer reported that the management of The Greenbrler had confiNed the following dates for the Annual Meeting for the next Elva years: June June June June June 1214, 1975 10712, 1975 (by Proposed Epldemlologlcal Study on me1 Chloride. Forwarded to Directors in advance of the meeting and presented by Chalman mlson was a proposal for an epldemlologlcal study on Vinyl chloride involving the medical records of 1ndustrlally exposed workers and supplementing the animal testing program approved in January 1973, copy appended as Exhibit As The proposed study had been considered and 1:5 approval recommended by the Executive Com? mittee. cm 012531 1424 on MOTION. duly made and seconded, is was: voTED: That the proposed epldemlologlcal study on Vinyl chloride, as set forth in Ex* mm: As be approved. ACT Report of Subcommittee Studying Means to Increase MCA Effectiveness, Particularly in Government Relations Area. Forwarded m Directors in advance of the meeting and summarized by Dr. Kane was the report of the subcommittEE, of which he was Chalman, appolnted to study means to increase MCA effectiveness, particularly in Government Relations area. copy appended as Exhibit Be on MOTION. duly made and seconded, is was: voTED: That the report of the subcomlttee, as set forth in Exhibit Be together with is: recommended agenda for MCA Board meetings and schedule of 1973774 Dlrectors' meetings, be approved and, further, that the subcommittee be congratulated for is: fine work. (:17 Proposed Extension of Tenure of the Ad Hoc Committee on Chemicals Regulations Forwarded m Directors in advance of the meeting and presented by Chalrman mlson was a proposal to extend the tenure of the Ad Hoc Committee on Chemicals Regulation, copy appended as Exhibit co The proposal had been considered by the Executive Committee at 1:5 meeting earlier in the day and 1:5 approval recommended. on MOTION. duly made and seconded, is was: voTED: That the proposed extension of tenure of the Ad Hoc Committee on Chemicals Regulation, as set forth in Exhibit cO be ap* proved. kEY Report of Membership Committee. In the absence of Chalri man Drake. the SecretaryiTreasurer reported on behalf of the Membership Committee that applications had been recelved from Dlxle Chemical Company, Inc. , of Houston. Texas, and Rublcon Chemicals Inc. of Gelsmar, Louisiana, and that in the opinion of the Membership Committee the applicants were qualified for membership under the Association's Bylaws. ON MOTION. duly made and seconded, is was: voTED: That the applicants be elected to membership in the Association. cm 012532 EXHIBIT A Proposed Epldemlologlcal Study on Vinyl Chloride supplementary to the annual testing program on vill chloride (monomer) approved in January 1973 for MCA admlnlstratlon. there 15 a desire to proceed now mm an epldemlologlcal study of the medical records of 1ndustrlally exposed workers. Companies that are also supporting the annual testing program have volunteered funds on the same sub? scrlptlon basis to defray anticipated costs ranging from a probable mmmum of 572,000 up to a tentatively estimated maximum of about $92,000. Tabersnawmoper Assoclates, Inc., Berkeley, (13115.. has been chosen to conduct the study, after consideration of several candidates. A tune period of eight months has been projected. Management of the project on behalf of MCA would follow the same pattern as provided for the annual testing program. MCA cm 012533
