exhibit STAFF REPORT February 1972 by William J . Driver v b AZElAicjti mama mmsmmr NIon... ...in his State of the Union message, emphasiZed the Admlni lstratlon's legislative proposals which were introduced last year and on which congressional action has not yet been comi pleted. Speclflcally, the President urged the Congress to take early action on welfare resom, health services, revenue sharing, the environment, consumer protection and transports? tion. In addition m stressing the need for action on proposed eni Vironmental legislation, the President stated he would soon be sending m the Congress a message on the environment that would present "further admlnlstratlve and legislative initiatives." The President also indicated that he would soon propose new leglsJ lation concerning: A new technology program, with federal increase private research, and incentives m Federally supported research on a range of projects designed am unprove our everyday level." Another area involving new legislative proposals concerns edui cation. The President stated he would recommend later in the year a new way of financing public schools to supplant reliance on local property taxes. mule no details were given, is 15 under? stood the Admlnlstratlon has been studying the concept of a Valueadded tax as a means of raising revenue to pay for local schools. However. passage of such legislation this year 15 improbable. THE 92m: cousngss... ...reconvened on January 19 to start what leaders in both houses hope wi11 be an abbreviated Second Session. Rights are set on adjournment by Labor Day. In the environmental area two measures undoubtedly wi11 be enacted: water pollution and pesticides control. The water b111, so 2770, passed the Senate in November. is: House counterpart has been approved in principle by the Public Works CommittEE, and passage by April 15 likely. The pesticide b111, Tax. 10729, passed the House last November. Consideration by the Senate Agriculture Committee has not yet been scheduled. but probably wi11 be in the next month or so. Enacti men: in about 5114 months 15 possible. cm 036161 Toxic substances legislation, which 15 under consideration by the Senate Subcommittee on the Environment under the acting likely m be approved this year even though a draft has been prepared by committee staff and 15 55m to be ready for executive session consideration. We have. however. compiled with the request made by Senator Spong during our testimony last November So In a letter dated January SO our Views were transmitted concerning these aspects of Amendment No. 339. in which we questioned both: The adequacy and usefulness of the deflnltlon of "chemical substances," as stated in Section 202, and The potential Value of a "provisional certlflcatlon subject to recall" as a means of shortening the ad? ministrative delays incident to full certlflcatlon. In the consumer protection area, at least two measures probably wi11 become law: So 996, the Consumer Product Warrantles and Federal Trade Cami mission Improvement Act of 1971. is passed the Senate in November and should get through the House m:nm the next few months. And: Tax. meas, the Consumer Protection Act of 1971, which passed the House in October. Th1: mu would create an independent Coni sumer Protection Agency, and is expected to pass the Senate, possibly in 3 more stringent com than the House Version. There 15 less chance of completed action on product safety legislation. although a House Interstate and Forelgn Commerce Subcommittee 15 currently conducting hearings on Tax. sun, 3 product safety mm. In the labor area, the first order of business 15 Senate consideration of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Floor debate began on January 19 and action was expected to be completed by the end of the month. A House measure concerning this subject passed that body in September. In that Version. Tax. 9247, EEOC would have to request court action to enforce "ceasemandideslst" orders. Under the Senate b111, as reported by the Senate Labor and Public Welfare CommittEE, EEOC would have "ceasemandideslst" powers. Minimum wage 1 eglsl ation 15 likely m be enacted this session. Tax. 7130, reported by the House Education and Labor Committee in November, would boost the minimum wage to oF an hour. The Senate Labor Subcommittee has under consideration so 1951 which would ralse the minimum wage to oF an hour the year of enactment, and $2.25 one year later. cmnz~1~2 1 3 Emergency strike legislation 15 a hot lssue due to the West Coast dock strike. on January 21 . President leon submitted a message m the Congress requesting legislation to halt is, and a mm was introduced by Senators Bob Packwood (RrDreJ and Jacob Javlts (R.7N.Y.7 as Senate Jolnt Resolution 197. The full Senate Labor Committee began hearings on January 27 and was expected to complete consideration of the proposal within a week. The measure would provide for the appolntment of a 3*man Arbitration Board to hear and settle the lssues. No strike or lockout would be permitted from the date the legislation was enacted until the day the Arbitration Board makes us deter? mination. The Board's detemlnatlon would be made within On days and would be binding on 511 parties for 19 months. The President also requested enactment of the emergency Public Interest Protection Act of 1971 15. Sam and Tax. 35967, thAT would provide pemanent authority to settle strikes in the trans* portation industry. s mule limited legislation to stop the West Coast dock strike may be passed. is wi11 be extremely difficult to get permanent antlistrlke legislation through in an election year. Trade legislation was significantly omitted from the President's State of the Union message. is appears the Admlnlstratlon omitted the lssue in order m avold providing a forum for consideration of the Hartke43urke mm or. other protectionist or restrictive trade proposals. In View of the broad scope of the Hartkeﬁsurke measure aS. 2592mm. 109147, is 15 receiving the attention of several MCA committeesﬁmonomc Policy Review, Tax Policy, International Trade and Government Relations. The latter committee held a meet? mg on January 27 m discuss the Various courses of action which might be taken by MCA should this proposal come up for congressmm 51 hearings. Also. the Senate Commerce Committee has under consideration the Export Expansion Act of 1971, so 2754, on which the Admlnlsi tration has not expressed a position. Public hearings were held by the Committee's Subcommittee on Forelgn Commerce and Tourlsm during the week of January 24. More are scheduled later in February. Our International Trade Committee recommends that written\testimony be submitted. A proposed draft is in preparationoopmcn wi11 echo positions we have previously taken with regard to expanding exports. THE momma POLICY REVIEW comrrmg... cmnzalaz ...which you recently established, held is: first meeting on January 19 and considered matters relating to Phase 11 economic policy and m the economic incentives for research and development proposed by President leon in his State of the Union message. The committee is chalred by William so Sheath, President of Union Carblde Corporation. DailY co Wllllams is serving as MCA Staff Secretary. ...w111 conduct hearings on proposed emission standards concerning mercury, asbestos and berylllum as hazardous alr pollutants as follows: New York. New York January 19 Kansas Uity, Missouri February 1 Los Angeles, Callfornla February 15 In accordance with the Clean Alr Act Amendments of 197m, EPA'S Admlnlstrator: Is authorized to set emission standards for existing sources of alr contaminants which he 61nd: m be hazardous. and Can delay construction of a new emissions source for such alr pollutants until he first determines that the new source” is properly operated, wi11 not Violate his standards. MCA is not partlclpatlng in the above hearings. However. several member companies which produce chlorine and caustlc by the mercury cell process are active through the Chlorine Instituted Last December 23, standards of performance for atmospheric *emlsslons from new or substantially modified sulfuric and nltrlc acid plants were promulgated by EPA, together with those for fixed steam generators, Portland cement plants, and munlclpaltype incinerators. We submitted carefully documented comments on the proposed standards following thelr publication last August 17. However. the final Version took little cognlzance of the economic and technological factors we presented. As a result. nine sulfuric acid producers, representing ap* proxlmately an of the industry's production capacity, have jolned to seek judicial review of the standards for sulfuric acid plants. MCA is not involved. EPA has announced is: intention to propose Federal standards of perfomance for atmospheric emissions from petrochemical processes at an early date, and has invited the Association m Dominate industry representatives m an informal advisory grout! to supplement the technical expertise of the EPA staff. In spite of limited success in previous efforts, we feel we should continue to cooperate, and we thank our members for Volunteerlng thelr experts to serve on such advisory bodies. EPA 15 soon expected to publish proposed regulations governi mg control of hazardous substances in relation to water quality control. which have long been in preparation. We are seeking an opportunity for our technical specialists to cooperate in pre* publication review of the proposal. cm n35154 r cmmmc... ...the Chemical Emergency Transportation Center, has recelved over 2nnn inbound callEd Since is: inception September SO 1971. Some ON calls concerned incidents involving chemicals in transit. Many were made Simply m confirm cammm's existence. A Signs flcant but dwlndllng number of calls resulted from the telephone company having assigned cammc the discontinued reservation number of the Howard Johnson motel chaln. Assistance has been provided in situations ranging from major traln derailments m leaks in small packages. Tank cars and drums have been the contalners involved in about twoithlrds of the incidents reported. Two problems involving ships in 5mm: in the Pacific Ocean have been successfully handled and one call was from Alaska. During cmmmc planning, is was anticipated that calls from emergency services (fire, pollcey would predomlnate. So far. however. carriers are far ahead in making use of the service. Hopefully, this wi11 dispose of many problems before they need Operating experience to date conflrms the Validity of the chosen approach W providing immediate 1nfomatlon from file; then utilizing the expertise of shippers. s Reaction m cammm has been good from carriers and emer* gency services allied Prompt company followup has been an mY portant factor in this achievement and cooperation by member companies generally as well as many nonmembers has been excel: lent. During the week of March as several workshops on cmmmc wi11 be conducted by is: Manager, John tO. Zercher, in Los Angeles, San Franclscm Portland and Seattle. Target audiences are: fire, police and other emergency personnel plus nonimember chemical companies. West Coast assistance 15 by the Southern Callfornla Chemical Manufacturers Association and the Chemical Industry Councils of Northern Callfornla and the Pacific Northwest. PHTHALATES... ...particularly phthalate esters used as plasticizers for plastics, mainly polyvinyl chloride, have been the subject of 5775 number of news ltems over the past year Calling attention ...m potential health and ecologlcal consequences from thelr widespread use. 1 As yet there have been no allegations of ham to human health. However. researchers are concerned about finding these substances in the heart muscle of Various annuals. extraction by the blood in hospital contalners and effects observed in experimental annuals. cm 036165 As a result. one of our member companies suggested a con? ference among technical representatives of interested companies, m discuss reported findings and consider collective action. A meeting for this purpose is scheduled at MCA headquarters on February 24. t THE NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS... ...has published a "World Index of Plastics Standards," a 115: of more than soon national and international standards on plastics and related materials which were in effect as of The publication, su Catalogue No. 1 3.1 n:352 , 15 $5.50 per copy and may be ordered from the Superlntendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washlngton, no co 2nqn2. THE mum. ”.5“ our onsihour session at the Annual Convention of the General Federatlon of Women's Clubs on June 9 in Denver. Colorado includes: Mrs. Virginia Knauer, Special Asslstant m the President for Consumer Affalrs; Dr. Rlchard Kenyon, Director of Public Affalrs and the Communications Dlvlslon of the Amerlcan Chemical Society and Carl As Gerstacker, Chalrman of the Board,. The Dow Chemical Company. Mrs. Peggy Walton, my: Manager of Consumer Information, wi11 moderate. cm 036166 1
