EXHIB T B Propo ed Rat ation of Economic Consultant to Supply the Econo is: Data for the chemical Industry's Position on the I dustrlal Reorganization Act (Hart 3111 7 So 11577 LEGAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE EcoNo in POLICY REVIEW COMMITTEE Sena: r Hart has introduced a bill 15. 11577 intended m caulk tats he breaklngiup of large corporations in 3 number of industries, 1nclu mg the chemical industry. Hearings before his Subcommltt e an An ltrust and Monopoly of the Senate Judiciary Committee began Li’s: ear and will continue during this year and next. There have alrea y been two series of hearings on the general merits or demeri is: the b111, and one series devoted to communications, party cula y the Bell System. A We as on the automobile industry will been February 25. The hemical industry 15 not likely to have is: day n court for many months to come. wAs there 15 little prospect of the enactment of so 1157 in is: resent form, there 15 a danger that some elements of is may beco a law. More Var. the Hart hearings are a forum in which major endS tries are under public attack, and the chemical industry should be r ady mi defend itself. is 1 not possible at this polnt to pre* chat the character of the hearings on our industry. As in the case of t a Bell System, one major company may be chosen for attack. iS eems likely to be the case mm the motor industry, our ...ent1re And stay may be exposed to rigorous review. is s not known at prebent whether MCA Will be asked to appear...nor has is been decided whe her. 15 not asked. MCA would choose to Volunteer 1:5 testimony. How Ver. is seems to the above committees the course of prudence m a prepared for all contingencies. Accordingly, we propose that MCA engage prof. Steven Lustgarten of Baruch college as a consultant to ssemble and organiZe data demonstrating that the chemical many to is not in need of deconcentration under Senator Hart's proposed of dustrlal Reorganlsatlon Act" 7 that is is, in fact, money com? pe 1t1VE, open to new entrants, and a force restraining rather than su taining inflation (the detailed proposal of Prof. Lustgarten is Up endedy. Th proposal is budgeted for a cost of $17,537. Th1: figure d s not include the cost of printing. T e decision whether to p in: the study and in what form 15 a separate question, m be alded when is 15 completed. CA A 039330
