Proposed Research Program on Carcinogenic Potential of mel Chloride EXHIBIT A purpose The purpose of this program 15 to provide sclentlflc 1nfomatlon to clarify the status of Vinyl chloride (monomer) in reference to carclnogenlclty. Proj eat As recommended by an Ad Hoc Planning Group for mel Chloride Research. composed of representatives of eight MCA member companies, the project 15 to contract for annual testi mY research under which experimental annuals would 1nhale Vinyl chloride monomer Vapor at selected concentration levels and be examined in accord with an agreediupon testing and examination protocol. Planned duration of the project 15 three years. According to quotations from Industrial closest Laboratorles, Inc., with which the contract is in prospect, and an allowance for Vinyl chloride supply and contingencies, the projected cost 15 $193,000. Funding Funding commitments have been recelved from seventeen MCA member companies sufficient in the aggregate to cover the stated cost. Company shares are proirated on the basis of publicly announced tonnage production capacity for Vinyl chloride monomer plus polyvinyl chloride. lsbursements are to be subject to MCA staff clearance an approval. Sup Vision The ogram 15 m be supervised on MCA'S behalf by a Techn 51 Task Group on me1 Chloride Research composed of one he hnlcal representative from each subscribing company, plus an MCA staff representative to serve as secretary. Admlnlst atlvely, the Task Group 15 m function under the jurY diction of the Occupational Health Committee. CMA 03522 Stlpulatl s The tAlent 51c 1nfomatlon developed from this program 15 to be c by disclosed, without restriction. For purpose of consistS y and control, however, all releases are to be made solely hrough MCA, nomany based on Task Group reef ommendations as to nature and timing. Th1: requlrem It would not preclude reLate sclentlflc interchange of nonicompetltlve 1nfomatlon u mY to advancement of the program, nor relevant private commun cation Hlthln and among subscribing companies. is would be an obligation to inform the MCA staff representai tive on a curre t basis about all such related interchanges and communicate n5 other than those internal to the company. Operation The Task Group 1 to be governed by the requlrements of MCA'S "General p 1nc1ples Applicable to the Structure and Dpi eratlons of Comm ttees" and the Rules of Drganlzatlon and Prof cedure of the Dec national Health Committee. MCA CMA 035229
