EXHIBIT A TAFF PROPOSAL oncernlng iT Quality Committee Membership u nald co Wlnson a February 10, 1970, at the request of the Alr o allOW Committee, the Board of Directors approved r gularlzatlon of the membership of Donald co wlnson o this committee. M . Wlnson, an outside counsel re resentlng Alcoa, was recognized as a Valid exception to the "General Principles Applicable m the St nature and Operations of Committees" provision th t membership be restricted m fullitlme employees of member companies. Th 5 action was made subject to annual staff review and Board reconflmatlon. and on February oF 1971, such reconflrmatlon was granted by the Board. As the factors leading m the earlier request re aln equally Valid, the staff recommends the Board Up rove Mr. Wlnson's continuation as a member of the As Quality Committee, subject to staff review and Bo ad reconflmatlon at the end of another year. st cc Proposal of February 10, 19 nO 15 attached to 1nfomatlon. cm 035159 ST F PROPOSAL co cerning As Quality Committee Membership of Do ald co Wlnson Fr k La Seamans, outside counsel of the Alumlnum Company of merlca, was on the charter roster of the Air Quality Committee whe is was organized in 1949, and was an outstanding contrlbutor to as program in the early years. Upon adoption of the "General Put cOpies Applicable to the Structure and Operations of Committees" in 953, on his own 1n1tlatlve he 1nqu1red whether the requlrement of 'merrbericompany fullitlme employees for committee membership wou d affect his status. General will, then MCA president, rul d tha this praiexlstlng menlbershlp could continue undlsturbed. In 954, Alcoa nominated Donald (tO WinsDn, a member of Mr. Se ans' legal mm, as successor to Mr. Seamans. The record of BOX d approval indicates only that Mr. Wlnson represents Alcoa, Is no evidence of recognition that he was not an Alcoa employees The irregularity of As membership was brought out in 3 recent gen ral review of committees by Staff Counsel. The Alr Quality Committee 15 eager for Mr. Wlnson to con* thE a in full partlclpatlon. 315 background of legal speculur two in industrial air pollution 15 comparatively rare, and As lea ershlp at this juncture 15 especially valuable. He has been, and 15 personally interested in continuing to be, an active coni trY utor m the Committee's needs. He can be particularly helpful in he organization and development of the recently authorized JOB t Subcommittee on Alr and Water Pollution Legislation and Reg nations. Ace rdlngly, primarily as a "grandfather" case and as such not otherwise setting a precedent, and secondarlly in recognition of ontlnulng need by the Committee for the services he 15 pecui ha by able to render, the staff recommends that the Board of Our ctors regularlze the membership of Donald co Wlnson on the Alr Quality Committee as an acknowledged exception to the membercompany fullitlme employee quallflcatlon, subject to staff review and Board reconflmatlon annually. CMA 3515“
