Proposed esearch Program 0 Met: nlsms of Phosgene Injury to the Lungs EXHI T A Puzpo The pu ass of this program, to be collectively funded by Voluntary sub? scrlptl n5 from interested companies, 15 to provide 1nfomatlon on the basic mechanl s Involved in phosgene damage to the lungs. Th1: information 15 a prerequl itS for the detemlnatlon of a recommended method of medical treat? ment of 1 dustrlal exposures to phosgene. Initial p oject As recomme dad by the Ad Hoc Task Group on Phosgene Safety composed of represents was of interested member companies, the lnMediate project 15 that defined in he proposal made by Dr. M OF Frosolono of the.Mt. SUm Hospital of Clevelan in 3 letter to MCA dated August 23, 1972 Th1: project Is to be conducted un er Contracts (37 between MCA and Mt. SUm Hospital of Cleveland, not to excee $30,00 and (by between MCA and Dr. Frosolono for consulting fees regarding the research referred to in 157, not to exceed $3,00 Supervision Th1: research 5 m be supervised on MCA'S behalf by a Technical Task Group composed of on technical representative from each subscribing company plus an MCA staff repr tentative to serve as secretary. Drganlzatlonall Within MCA, the Task Group 15 to function under the Jurlsi diction of the afety and Fire Protection Committee Funding Consnltments hav been made by thirteen interested companies in support of this research, u to $3,50 per company. Funds are to be collected in advance of commitments d disbursements subject to MCA staff clearance and approval. Stlpulatlons The sclentlflc in rmation developed from this program 15 m be fully d15* closed without re trlctlon For purposes of consistency and control, however, all releases are t be made through MCA only, notably based on Task Force recomi mendations as m n ture and timing Th1: requlrement 15 not to preclude pay vats sclentlflc In erahange of non'competltlve information which Will be useful, nor relevant prlvat cosnunlcatlon among subscribing companies and organizations the staff represent tive m be 1nfomed of all such interchanges and communications Operation The Task Group will a governed by MCA'S "General Principles Applicable to the Structure and op Iations of Committees and the Rules of Drganlzatlon and Procedure of the 556 ty and Fire Protection Committee MCA CMA 035207
