exhibit tO STAFF REPRT January 1‘73 by William J Driver TAX REFORM...hear1ngs before the House Ways and mittee ar likely m begin early in the next session As long so as last June, that Committee's Chalman, M1115 my Ark.7, indicated the lssue would be number orlty. Means Com of Congres. Wllbur one pay Less certain 15 the nature and scope of such hearings. While Var on: members of Congress have announced that they wi11 sponsor of oopholejolugglng" bills. M1115 has avolded advocating sweeping efoms. The Admlnstratlon is expected to introduce is: tax reform proposal aBly in order to take the initiative. Comments by Various Teasury Department officials indicate the Admmsmr tion wi11 emphasize tax Simplification rather than substantive reform. Treasury nder Secretary Edwln So Cohen stated recently that he specter! Congress to take under consideration the Asset Depreclat on Range (AER) system, the investment taut credit, and the mm tax on tax preference income. is 15 als- expected that caLl 51 galns wi11 come up for congressional review. Some Aded lstratlon officials have been advocating early Congressional consideration of trade reform legislation ahead of tax leal lation, both of which are handled by the House Ways and Mean Committee. Mr. M1115 15 reported to have indicated that he ould put trade legislation before tax resom is President leon sh-uld request it. We understand, however, that the Preslden has not yet made a decision on elther the nature of trade lelslatlon m be proposed by the Admlnlstratlon, or on the tact cal lssue of when to present it. TRADE Po ICY...1n the new leon Admlnlstratlon wi11 operate under ne leadership. The Pres dent has indicated that. in addition m his Cabinet dutles. reasury Secretary Shultz wi11 take charge of overall economic policy. The 1mm1 ent departure of Commerce Secretary Peterson should restore he Department of State to some emlnence in trade policy matters. No Chang: have been indicated so far in the Office of the Special rade Representatives However. the President has accepted r slgnatlons from a number of International Economic Policy Council staff memb rs, presently headed by Peter Flanlgan. :sz D3626 Staff Reort January 973 Page 2 9 THE cow DVERSY...oVer tank car mileage allowances continues. on Nova er 24, the railroads filed a reply to statements by MCA and -ther 1ntervenors with the Interstate Commerce Commission The r511 Dads: Resist udatlng of base classlflcatlon Values (BCV'57 , attackeD the basic system and claiming that a single percentae trendlng factor 15 inappropriate, Crltlclz-d our proposal to ralse the Value ceiling to 54n,nnn, contending that linings and special materials relate to the "package" function of a tank car, and Continue legal objections m Icc's power to prescribe special allowances. The r31 road document was lengthy. Therefole, m permit adequat evaluation and response, additional time to comment was requestd in our behalf and that of the Amerlcan Petroleum Institute, car 11mm; companies and other supporters. Four weeks w-re granted; reply statements are now due January oF 1973. NIosH.. the National Institute for Occupational Safety and ﬂea th, 15 conducting a National Occupational Hazard Survey a statl-tlcal study designed to collect pertinent information regards g biological, physical and chemical exposures to enduse trial wmrkers. Accompanied by management representatives, NIDSH surveyo s tour industrial plants, noting exposures to different occupat onal groups. Seventy Elva percent of the data collected 15 reported as exposurs to trade name compounds. However the Institute's ultlmat goal is to develop 1nfomatlon on exposures to specific chemicl sO not trade name products. Therefo bY NIDSH desired lngredlnt 1nfomatlon for each trade name ltem reported to them. To obtan this 1nfomatlon they propose to send a letter and a "equest com" (one for each trade name product) to about soon ma ufacturers. Respons- would be mandatory. There 1 obvious concern that trade secret 1nfomatlon might 1-31: from the NIDSH files. Theref- e a panel meeting under t e Office of Management and Budget 15 belng arranged, and M A companies wi11 have an opportunity to express thelr Views egardlng the need for assurances of confldentlallty beyond those already expressed in the Occupational Safety and Health Act. 1 cm n3.24a Staff 'eport Januar 1973 Page 3 THE ASDCIATIDN...part1c1pated in 3 recent meeting in Geneva of the United National Committee of Experts on the Trans port 0 Dangerous Goods. Attend mg were: As co Clark, Assub ant Te hnlcal Directors Transportation and Dlstrlbutlon and Dr. co Boyd Shaffer, Director of Toxlcclogy. Amerlcan Cyanamld Compan . The la tar served as an advisor on deflnltlons and clause leatlons of toxic materials. Action taken at this meeting wi11 result in publication of a s ponement m United Nations recommendations 119707 on the al.55161catlon. packaging and labeling of hazardous materials in international trade. t THE ASDCIATIDN...has offered recommendations m the Environmental Protection Agency (mm on the professional quallucatlons deemed necessary to membership on us Effluent Standards and Water Quality Infomatlon Advisory Committee. We al-o offered to suggest candidates suiting these qualifier tions . ASSOC ATIDN TASK GROUPS...are continuing to work with EPA in th development of effluent guidelines for the categories of organ (:5. inorganics, plastics and synthetlcs. EPA n 5 already lssued guldance documents to is: tan Regional Office for thelr interim use in drafting discharge permits for plant is and synthetlcs and 15 entering into contracts with consutants who wi11 recommend a basis for establishing Best Practcable Control Technology Currently Available, Best Axial]: able Iechnology Economically Achlevable, and National Standards of Pa formance for new discharge sources. is 15 anticipated that 1nd1v1dual plants judged to be "exemplary" wi11 provide the base for the requlred levels of technological performance. am 35247 5:36 Report Janu.ry 1973 Page 4 THE ATER “swans commrmg...nas established eight task grous to deal with particular aspects of regulations under the 1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. In t 15 regard, we have already commented to EPA regarding: 117 roposed regulations relating to State discharge permit pro am: and forms for discharge permit applications and 127 a dra- document relating m pretreatment standards for discharges 1nt-mun1c1pal systems. A SILID WASTES MANAGEMENT CDMMITTEE...task group and other 1ntrested company representatives are reviewing an EPA draft doc an: on ocean disposal guidelines and wi11 malntaln dialogue mY that agency in the development of ensulng Federal regulai :10 s . ma. HERMAN so BLDCH...Assoclate Uni ersal 011 Products and a lDiyear Ac lvltles Committee Bom, has been Amrlcan Chemical Society's Board of m actor of Research for we Eran of my: Education na ed Chalrman of the u rectors. up BlocK has been one of the prune catalysts for MCA/ACS collaboration in such EAC projects as the "Chemlstry In Action" -r1e5, OpeniEnded Experlments, Awards and Interface Conferences. Be served as EAC Chalman from 19591971. A 03624:!
