Exhibit H
REPORT TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
James E. McKee Jr., Chairman
Public Relations Committee
November 22, 1976
Th hazards of holding the same office for two years are obvious.
In 1975, the Public Relations Committee report covered two main
points for future action:
1. That we would focus more sharply on major opportunities as well
as the larger problems of the chemical industry, and
2. That we would establish closer relationships with other functional
areas of MCA so a more meaningful contribution to the industry's
total communications could be made.
These things have been done.
The assaults on the chemical industry by media and government in
the past 12 months have made it imperative.
In addition, the
Toxic Substances Legislation demonstrated what can be accomplished
through interaction of functions when proper leadership is provided.
'Spurred by today's public demands and the proof that joint committee
action can get things done, the Public Relations Committee stepped
tip its practice of meeting with the leadership of certain other
functional committees, particularly Government Relations, Technical
and Legal Advisory.
This was started about 18 months ago to gain a better perspective
-- that we can have a common purpose and pursuit. We have agreed
These are human health and the environment, and increasing govern­
ment constraints which erode industry's management of its resources.
committees.
The plan was proposed by a former chairman of our committee, Ned
Brandt of Dow, and adopted at our September meeting. Most of the
These committees are Air Quality, Water Resources, Solid Waste,
Occupational Health, Government Relations, Legal Advisory and
Chemical Regulations Advisory.
of those committees and the public relations committee to stimulate
spokesmanship on the public issues.
Each committee will be asked to provide basic facts and a statement
representing MCA’s position on their function as related to govern­
ment, health and environment. The Air Quality Committee, for
about air pollution, and provide the industry position on current
Members of the task force would serve as coordinators of the project
platforms in leading cities where maximum exposure to our point of, 6
view can be gained. We have in mind prestigious platforms like the
Economic Club of Detroit, with accompanying appearances on local
radio and TV plus newspaper interviews.
The task force would be responsible for placing industry material
in the hands of selected spokesmen, coordinating appearances on a
geographic basis and making sure that the load was properly spread
among the member companies.
Each speaker would develop his topic in his own way, weaving in
directors of MCA, supported by other chief executive officers not
will be gained as we build up this corps of spokesmen. MCA has a
constant need for industry experts who can provide statements and
make appearances on relatively short notice.
News media, as you know, will use responses to issues and handle
"the other side's" position when the story is breaking.
There is
It's either
We hope to get this plan underway in early 1977.
It goes without saying that all on-going PR programs are being
will be addressed.
CMA 037125
I
ChemEcology will expand further its coverage of member company
success stories in the areas of environment and toxic substances.
positive contributions by the chemical industry with emphasis on
health and environmental protection.
MCA News will continue to report on industry and company programs
in these key public issues so that good ideas can be shared across
the membership.
company plants which have achieved goals in energy conservation.
This program, of course, could demonstrate MCA's dedication to
energy conservation and show that even without a national energy
people participating in MCA activities in six companies and the
professional staff of MCA. That panel has now grown to 19
upon which we base our forward planning we share with you today.
roost of this year's environmental and energy issues. Water and
air pollution legislation will doubtless take over the spotlight
recently occupied by toxic substances.
Chemicals in food and
food packaging will join other lurking problems like pesticides
to keep all of us busy. We must be prepared to answer our critics,
to itemize consequences of tradeoffs and to accentuate the positive
