exhibit d
STAFF REPORT
January 1973
by
William J. Driver
TAX REFORM...hearings before the House Ways and
mittee are likely to begin early in the next session
As long ago as last June, that Committee's Chairman,
ority.
Means Com­
of Congress.
Wilbur
one pri­
Less certain is the nature and scope of such hearings.
sweeping reforms.
The Administration is expected to introduce its tax reform
proposal early in order to take the initiative.
Comments by
various Treasury Department officials indicate the Administra­
tion will emphasize tax simplification rather than substantive
reform.
Treasury Under Secretary Edwin S. Cohen stated recently
that he expected Congress to take under consideration the Asset
the minimum tax on tax preference income.
It is also expected
Congressional consideration of trade reform legislation ahead of
and Means Committee. Mr. Mills is reported to have indicated
that he would put trade legislation before tax reform if President
Nixon should request it. We understand, however, that the
President has not yet made a decision on either the nature of
trade legislation to be proposed by the Administration, or on
under new leadership.
duties, Treasury Secretary Shultz will take charge of overall
economic policy.
restore the Department of State to some eminence in trade policy
matters.
No changes have been indicated so far in the Office of the
Special Trade Representative.
However, the President has
accepted r signations from a number of International Economic
Policy Council staff memb rs, presently headed by Peter Flanigan.
CWA 036246
Staff Report
January 1973
Page 2
9
MCA and other intervenors with the Interstate Commerce Commission
Resist updating of base classification values (BCV's) ,
attacking the basic system and claiming that a single
percentage trending factor is inappropriate,
Criticized our proposal to raise the value ceiling to
$40,000, contending that linings and special materials
relate to the "package" function of a tank car, and
Continued legal objections to ICC's power to prescribe
specific allowances.
Therefore, to permit
adequate evaluation and response, additional time to comment was
requested in our behalf and that of the American Petroleum
Institute, car lining companies and other supporters.
Four
weeks were granted; reply statements are now due January 8, 1973.
and Health, is conducting a National Occupational Hazard Survey —
a statistical study designed to collect pertinent information
trial workers. Accompanied by management representatives, NIOSH
exposures to trade name compounds.
However, the Institute's
ultimate goal is to develop information on exposures to specific
ingredient information for each trade name item reported to
them.
To obtain this information they propose to send a letter
and a "request form" (one for each trade name product) to about
Response would be mandatory.
There is obvious concern that trade secret information
might leak from the NIOSH files.
views regarding the need for assurances of confidentiality
beyond those already expressed in the Occupational Safety and
Health Act.
I
CMA 036246
Staff Report
January 1973
Page 3
THE ASSOCIATION...participated in a recent meeting in
Geneva of the United Nations1 Committee of Experts on the Trans
port of Dangerous Goods.
Dr. C. Boyd Shaffer, Director of Toxicology, American Cyanamid
Actions taken at this meeting will result in publication
the classification, packaging and labeling of hazardous
materials in international trade.
t
THE ASSOCIATION...has offered recommendations to the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on the professional
qualifications deemed necessary to membership on its Effluent
Standards and Water Quality Information Advisory Committee.
We also offered to suggest candidates suiting these qualifica­
tions .
in the development of effluent guidelines for the categories of
Offices for their interim use in drafting discharge permits for
consultants who will recommend a basis for establishing Best
Practicable Control Technology Currently Available, Best Avail­
able Technology Economically Achievable, and National Standards
It is anticipated
that individual plants judged to be "exemplary" will provide the
base for the required levels of technological performance.
CMA 036247
Staff Report
January 1973
Page 4
THE WATER RESOURCES COMMITTEE...has established eight task
groups to deal with particular aspects of regulations under the
1972 amendments to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
(1) proposed regulations relating to State discharge permit
draft document relating to pretreatment standards for discharges
A SOLID WASTES MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE...task group and other
interested company representatives are reviewing an EPA draft
with that agency in the development of ensuing Federal regula­
DR. HERMAN S. BLOCH...Associate
American Chemical Society's Board of
Dr. Bloch has been one of the prime catalysts for MCA/ACS
collaboration in such EAC projects as the "Chemistry In Action"
series, Open-Ended Experiments, Awards and Interface Conferences.
He served as EAC Chairman from 1969-1971.
CMA 036248
