This
reflects a 1984 chemical trade balance of about $379 million in
investment in the other country.
In many cases, Canadian
subsidiaries of U.S. companies produce intermediate or finished
products, not only for the Canadian market, but also for the
United States and third country markets.
industries complement each other.
Canada has a rich base in
capacity for large volumes of certain basic chemicals and inter­
mediates.
chemical and downstream chemical processing industry, as well as
capacity to produce a variety of commodity chemicals.
The United
—^U.S. Dep't. of Commerce, Bureau of Census* Highlights of
U.S. Export and Import Trade (FT990: December, 1984).
CMA 038378
States also has the world's largest market for products of the
III. SPECIFIC COMMENTS
Any Bilateral Free Trade Agreement Must Confer Balanced
agreements supports this contention.
Section 102 of the Trade
Act of 1974, as amended by Section 401 of the Trade and Tariff
Act of 1984,
indicates that such negotiations should be
conducted on the basis of mutuality.
Moreover, the legislative
bilateral agreements of the sort proposed with Canada must be
"reciprocal and mutually advantageous.” —
$2112), as amended by Section 401(a) (2) of the Trade and Tariff
CMA 038379
Any Free Trade Agreement with Canada Must Address
Negotiations on the Elimination of Preferential Canadian
Chemical Feedstock and Energy Policies and Foreign
Investment Restrictions Must be an Integral Part of Any Free
CMA believes that the negotiations between the United States
and Canada on a bilateral free trade agreement should not be
limited to the subject of tariff-cutting.
The elimination of
feedstock and energy policies and by Canadian foreign investment
restrictions must also be adequately addressed in such
negotiations.
Furthermore/ we believe that the U.S. Gov rnment
obtaining Canadian agreement to eliminate the trade distorting
effects of these restrictive policies.
Ample support for the
inclusion of non-tariff barriers in such negotiations is found in
Sections 102(a)/ 103 and 105 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19
CMA 038380
Canadian Raw -Material and Energy Policies
CMA believes that the internal energy policies implemented
under the Canadian National Energy Policy
(CNEP) have had an
adverse effect on market mechanisms in Canada and on Canadian
trade with the United States in energy-related products, such as
chemicals.
We understand that the CNEP is under review by the
Canadian government and is likely to be changed.
In any case, as
part of a bilateral free trade agreement, we urge that the United
governments' feedstock supply, price, and access policies do not
an artificial advantage for the producers of one country over
those of the other.
Such an assurance is particularly important
to industries, such as the petrochemical industry, for which
feedstock pricing and availability are critical because the cost
of feedstocks represents the largest element of cost for many
petrochemical products.
If the trade distorting effects of the
price of, and access to, petrochemical feedstocks are not
neutralized, then those Canadian policies will largely determine
the conditions of competition in international trade in
petrochemicals between the United States and Canada, undermining
the workings of an open market system.
CMA 038381
Canadian Investment Policy
The United States Government must address differences in
industry are not subject to different or more stringent
requirements than are Canadian investors in Canada.
be in violation of GATT Article III because FIRA made approval
to
e
invest in Canada contingent upon a foreign investor's acceptance
of often onerous performance requirements to which domestic
Canadian investors were not subject.
We understand that the Canadian Government has begun to
administer FIRA in a less restrictive manner and that the
Canadian Parliament has passed the "Investment Canada Act" as
FIRA's replacement. —
while this new legislation is supposed to
restrictions will remain, especially on foreign acquisitions of
existing Canadian companies.
It remains to be seen how the new
—^General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Report of the
Panel, Canada-Administration of the Foreign Investment Review
—Introduced in the House of Commons on December 7, 1984.
CMA 038382
In any event, CMA urges the United States Government to seek
restrictions, other than those dealing with national security,
prior to finalizing a tariff-cutting agreement with Canada.
Other Non-Tariff Trade Barriers, Such as Inadequate
Protection of Intellectual Property Rights, Should Also be
Considered in Any Free Trade Negotiations Between the United
States and Canada.
that the effective protection of intellectual property rights is
essential to increased innovation and productivity and is a vital
part of international trade decisions.
encouraging such protection in other countries are contained in
the Trade and Tariff Act of 1984, —^
the topic is being included
in numerous bilateral trade and investment negotiations, and
efforts are underway by some industry groups to have intellectual
negotiations.
In this context, CMA urges the United States Government to
address the issue of protection of intellectual property rights
Canada has
traditionally recognized the importance of providing such
CMA 038383
protection.
However, some problem areas remain, for example, in
We believe that a free trade agreement
with Canada should include a resolution of these issues, as well
as provisions eliminating any other non-tariff trade barriers
Agreement with Canada Must be Ef?ective.
Free Trade Aqreement~^etween the United Statesand Canada
sKould Include All Chemicals and Related Products and Not be
Restricted to Chemical Industry Subsectorsor Specific
Products.
A key issue in the U.S.-Canada negotiations is whether
import duties or tariffs will be eliminated "across the board" or
CMA is opposed to any chemical industry product or subs ctoral
approach.
Instead, we believe that tariff negotiations with
Canada must address all chemicals and related products.
We
believe such broader negotiations offer greater potential for
mutual trade benefits.
CMA 038384
Any Free Trade Agreement with Canada Should Require That All
products Eligible for Duty-Free Entry Into the United States
70 Percent of the Value of the Product.
condition for duty-free entry into the United States under a
bilateral free trade agreement with Canada.
This criterion would
be fully consistent with the goal of enhanced U.S./Canadian trade
and would help to prevent potential abuses of a special trade
relationship through transshipment practices.
The value added
threshold must be high enough to prevent products of third
performed in Canada.
CMA urges that the minimum domestic Canadian value added b
Generalized System of Preferences, the Caribbean Basin Economic
Recovery Act, and the proposed bilateral free trade agreement
with Israel.
with Canada because Canada is not a developing country and should
not be given the liberal domestic value added requirements that
In
addition, CMA recommends that the value of U.S. origin raw
materials or other components incorporated into a Canadian
product in Canada be considered to be Canadian value added for
purposes of the 70 percent test to promote bilateral trade.
CMA 038386
A Free Trade Agreement with Canada Should Provide for the
Mandatory^ Reimposition of Duties in the"Event of
include a "snap-back" provision under which United States import
column 1 rates if the conditions of the free trade agreement are
For example, if investment restrictions
were reimposed by Canada or if Canada imposed a new non-tariff
barrier to U.S. exports, then the duties on imports from Canada
Free Trade Negotiations with Canada Should Also Address
Other Issues, Such as How Temporary Trade Distortions Caused
by Currency Fluctuations and Injury to a Domestic Industry
by Dutv-^ree Entry of Products Will be Handled, to Avoid
Impairment of the Benefits Under Any Bilateral Free Trade
Agreement.
addressed in the context of bilateral free trade negotiations
with Canada are how to handle temporary trade distortions caused
by currency fluctuations and what to do if a domestic industry is
injured by the duty-free entry of products under an agreement.
Consideration should be given to imposition of a surcharge to
correct the temporary trade distortions in the first instance and
to imposition of temporary safeguard duties to eliminate the
unfair trade statutes will continue to apply to imports fr m
Canada.
CMA 038386
Any Bilateral Free Trade Agreement with Canada Should
Contain an Adequate and Binding Dispute Settlement
Mechanism.
CMA believes that any bilateral free trade agreement with
Canada should contain procedures for the settlement of disputes
between Canada and the United States that arise under the
agreement.
We do not believe that the procedures contained in
the proposed U.S./Israeli agreement are adequate for this
purpose.
Instead, we recommend that dispute settlement procedures in
settlement of disputes;
provide for a rapid and effectiv
decision in the event of a stalemate; and, most importantly,
provide for significant industry input in the dispute settlement
process.
for Timely Industry Input Before and During U.S,
Negotiations With Canada.
As mandated by the Trade Act of 1974, and reaffirmed in th
Trade Agreements Act of 1979, —
a structure of formal industry
from all segments of U.S. business is in place.
There is a
as amended bv Section 1103 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979,
JrStat. JdfiilO.
CMA 038387
widespread perception that the ISACs were not advised or
consulted adequately in the course of developing the U.S./Israel
Free Trade Agreement nor in earlier and subsequent U.S.
Government discussions with Mexico which led to the signing o£
the U.S./Mexican Subsidies Agreement.
eliciting private sector input on a timely basis if any
consultations on a U.S./Canada bilateral agreement proceed.
Moreover, we believe that appropriate mechanisms must exist
to allow for additional industry input, such as from CMA and
other trade associations, into any such negotiations so that all
significant considerations can be addressed prior to any
commitments having been made.
CONCLUSION
CMA believes that, if the issues raised in this paper are
considered by the United States Government before negotiations
agreement with Canada, then trade benefits mutually advantageous
to both countries are achievable through such an agreement.
CMA
CMA 038388
r
exhibit j-i
I
AMD
PROPOSED POLICY ON GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
1
I
1
groundwater program and to request approval of one new element of OiA's evolving
groundwater policy.
Groundwater is an important natural resource. It has many and varied uses
including drinking water supplies, crop irrigation, livestock watering and
industrial water supplies. Approximately 50% of all Americans obtain all or
part of their drinking water from groundwater sources.
Recently groundwater issues have come to the forefront. Many groundwater
issues are or soon will be before Congress, EPA, state legislatures and
regulatory agencies, and on the agendas of environmental groups, industry groups,
o
groundwater legislation in September 1985 which may
transportation, product use, waste disposal).
o
In 1985, 135 groundwater related bills were introduced in 25
states. Most bills contain provisions which significantly
impact chemical industry operations. An even greater level
o
Some states, such as Wisconsin and Florida have enacted
detailed legislation for groundwater management programs.
o
EPA recently developed and is moving to implement a groundwater protection strategy.
o
Consensus groups, such as the Conservation foundation and the
National Water Alliance have formed task groups to address
the issues.
o
other trade associations such as NACA, SOCMA and NEDA are
developing policy statements.
o
Bivironmsntal groups such as NRDC, EDF and EPI (Environmental
CMA 038389
To achieve a beneficial balance between chemical industry operations and
protection of human health and aquatic resources.
Elements and Status of CMA Groundwater Policy
addresses federal and state legislative and regulatory responsibilities. CMA's
position on the federal/state split continues to be that:
o
states should have responsibility for defining. Implementing
o
the federal government should provide guidance, technical
transfer and funds to aid states in their efforts.
the groundwater issue. These aspects include groundwater standards, monitoring,
date are summarized in Table I.
Proposed Groundwater Protection Policy
The proposed groundwater protection policy is before the Board of Directors
resource that must be protected.
integral part of broader groundwater management program.
As states develop their protection progrmas, CMA recamends that states
consider instituting requirements for appropriate facility design and operating
practices developed by each facility that will minimise the release of
pollutants (groundwater protection practices).
Also, CMA recognises that states may choose to institute the f llowing
practices as part of a groundwater management prograi a) a groundwater
withdrawal program to protect groundwater quality, b) land use planning in areas
where the potential for adverse imp acts from groundwater contain stion from
future activities are significant} e) a permit progrma for point source
discharges to groundwater where such discharges are not already controlled under
existing regulations*
Requested Action
Groundwater progrm review for infozmation only*
requested for one element of the groundwater prograi
Groundwater Quality (full text attached).
Specific approval is
Policy on Frotecti n of
CMA
CMA 038390
Element
Description of am Position and Status
existing quality or at a quality necessary
to maintain use, provided that standards
are applied where groundwater is with­
drawn for use* The federal goveriment
should develop use-based criteria s
states can set reasonable standards*
1
This position addresses when, where and
how to monitor groundwater to- insure
that desired groundwater quality is not
impaired. The position calls for tech­
nically sound methods for monitoring
by the Board of Directors in June 1985.
Alternative Supplies of
Drinking Water
governmental unit should use to deter­
mine when alternative drinking water
supplies should be provided. This is
an elaboration of current Board
approved Superfund policy.
Sols Source Aquifer
to prevent groundwater contmnatlon
is an elaboration of Board approved
Use Classification
uses. The position was approved by the
Board of Directors in 1982. Re-evalua­
Product Handling
This policy should address product
prevent contamination of groundwater.
Plana for policy development are
underway.
CMA 038391
EXHIBIT J-2
PROPOSED CMA POSITION
introduction
CMA
This document provides concapts for stata groundwitar quality protaction
cross-section of private and public activities (industrial, domestic, municipal,
covered by existing state and federal statutes, regulations and programs.
appropriately been the responsibility of state and local governments. In view
of tha localized nature of groundwatar use and the land use considerations tied
so closely to groundwater management, states continue to be best suited to
develop and implement groundwater management program. Some states have
designed or are in the process of designing programs tailored to meet their
states should consider instituting performance requirements for each facility
that will minimise the release of pollutants (groundwater protection practices
Also, CMA realizes that statss may choose to institute one or more of the
contamination from future activities are significant; and c) a permit program
for point source discharges to groundwater where such dischargus are not already
controlled under existing regulations.
The institution of requirements for appropriata facility design and
derating practices (GPP's) is an acceptable and appropriate means of protecting
CMA 038392
from ill source*. Such practices should be developed by the affected facility,
necessary, to demonstrate the effectiveness of the specific protection practice.
In, addition, a GPP should include educational and training programs for those
responsible for implementation.
maps. In addition, the GPP plan should be modified whenever changes at a
pollutants or where actual releases indicate the plan is inadequate.
Where states opt to include GPP‘s as part of their groundwater quality
The federal government should assist states in developing GPP requirements
by providing guidance and technical assistance and by creating the opportunity
for information exchange. This would assist states in determining the most
an appropriate and necessary procedure for those whose land surface activities
could affect groundwater quality.
Improper withdrawal of quantities of water can affect groundwater quality
by causing saltwater intrusion, undesirable changes in groundwater flow
